
 ▐▛███▜▌   Claude Code v2.0.27
▝▜█████▛▘  Sonnet 4.5 · Claude Max
  ▘▘ ▝▝    /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility

> Hi CC, welcome back, VS Code crashed during /compact, here's the latest compact message:   Session 
Summary: Autonomous 5-Pass Research Extraction (Sobotkova et al. 2023)

  What We Accomplished

  Successfully completed the full research-assessor v2.6 workflow for Sobotkova et al. 2023 ("Creating 
large,
  high-quality geospatial datasets from historical maps using novice volunteers") - a paper about 
crowdsourcing map
  digitization using mobile GIS with novice volunteers.

  Key Achievement: Demonstrated successful autonomous extraction across auto-compact sessions using 
queue.yaml and
  extraction.json as persistent state memory.

  Extraction Results

  Final Output (85 items total):
  - Evidence: 36 (100% sourced with verbatim quotes)
  - Claims: 31 (100% sourced with verbatim quotes)
  - Research Designs: 2 (both explicit)
  - Methods: 6 (5 explicit, 1 implicit)
  - Protocols: 10 (8 explicit, 2 implicit)

  Quality Metrics:
  - Source verification: 100% pass rate
  - Validation: PASSED - structurally sound, ready for assessment
  - Consolidations: 3 total (minimal for claims/evidence 3.1%, targeted for RDMAP 14.3%)

  Notable Finding: Paper has NO implicit arguments - all reasoning is explicit despite having 5 implicit 
RDMAP items
  (undocumented procedures like training protocol, GPS automation, performance mitigation).

  Files Committed

  All in outputs/sobotkova-et-al-2023/:
  - extraction.json - Complete structured extraction (542 lines)
  - validation-pass3.md - Validation report
  - summary.md - Human-readable summary with key findings

  What User Wants Next

  User wants to:
  1. Discuss the paper further
  2. Compare this extraction with a previous extraction run (done in chatbot, not Claude Code)

  The user is interested in understanding differences between the two extraction approaches/results.

  Key Context for Next Session

  Paper Summary: Sobotkova et al. 2023 presents a crowdsourcing approach for digitizing burial mounds from
 Soviet
  topographic maps using FAIMS Mobile (mobile GIS) with undergraduate field school students. Main 
contribution is
  demonstrating that mobile field data collection platforms can be repurposed for desktop digitization, 
positioning
  crowdsourcing as middle ground between labor-intensive desktop GIS and expertise-intensive machine 
learning.

  Methodological Transparency: Generally good - core methods well-documented, but 4 implicit protocols 
(training, GPS
  automation, performance mitigation, data correction) represent undocumented field adaptations.

  Key Claims:
  - Approach most efficient for 10,000-60,000 features
  - Payoff threshold vs desktop GIS: ~4,500 features
  - Payoff threshold vs ML: ~60,000 features
  - Based on comparative time-motion analysis

  User previously asked about implicit arguments and was interested to learn there were none (all 
reasoning explicit).

  Current Working Directory

  /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/outputs/sobotkova-et-al-2023/

  Repository State

  - Branch: main
  - Latest commit: df2a8cd "Complete autonomous 5-pass extraction for Sobotkova et al. 2023"
  - All extraction outputs committed and pushed 

● Welcome back! Thanks for the context - I can see we successfully completed the full 5-pass extraction
  for Sobotkova et al. 2023 before the crash. The extraction looks solid with 85 items total, 100% source
  verification, and validation passed.

  I can see the outputs are all committed in outputs/sobotkova-et-al-2023/:
  - extraction.json (complete structured data)
  - validation-pass3.md (validation report)
  - summary.md (human-readable summary)

  You mentioned you'd like to:
  1. Discuss the paper further
  2. Compare this extraction with a previous one done in the chatbot

  I'm ready to help with either! A few options:

  For comparison:
  - Do you have the previous extraction output in a file I can analyze?
  - What aspects are you most interested in comparing? (completeness, categorization differences, quality,
   etc.)

  For discussion:
  - Any specific findings or aspects of the paper you'd like to explore?
  - Questions about the extraction results or methodology assessment?

  What would you like to start with?

> ok, looking at your output, I see you did the rdmap_pass3 section-by section. I thought that 
input/WORKFLOW.md instructed you to do rdmap_pass3 over the entire paper - is WORKFLOW.md unclear, or did 
you do it this way for performance / efficacy reasons? 

● Good catch - let me check what WORKFLOW.md actually says about Pass 3 (RDMAP Pass 1).

● Read(input/WORKFLOW.md)
  ⎿  Read 230 lines

● Ah, I see the confusion! You're asking about Pass 5 (the validation pass), which uses the prompt file
  05-rdmap_pass3_prompt.md.

  Looking at WORKFLOW.md lines 177-181:

  ### Pass 5: Validation & Reporting
  - **Prompt**: `extraction-system/prompts/05-rdmap_pass3_prompt.md`
  - **Action**: Verify structural integrity, check cross-references, assess completeness (whole paper)
  - **Output**: Write `validation-pass3.md` (NO changes to JSON)
  - **Goal**: Quality assurance and human-readable assessment
  - **Note**: Pass 5 is the only pass that reviews the entire paper at once

  WORKFLOW.md is clear: Pass 5 should review the entire paper at once, not section-by-section. The note
  explicitly states: "Pass 5 is the only pass that reviews the entire paper at once."

  If I did Pass 5 section-by-section, I deviated from the instructions. Let me check the actual validation
   output to confirm what I did:

● Read(outputs/sobotkova-et-al-2023/validation-pass3.md)
  ⎿  Read 100 lines

● Looking at the validation report structure, it appears I did Pass 5 as a whole-paper review (which is
  correct according to WORKFLOW.md). The report has comprehensive cross-reference checking, hierarchy
  validation, and source verification across all 85 entities - this is consistent with a full-paper
  review.

  But I think there might be naming confusion here. When you say "rdmap_pass3", are you referring to:

  1. Pass 3 in the workflow (RDMAP Pass 1, using prompt 03-rdmap_pass1_prompt.md) - the liberal RDMAP
  extraction
  2. Pass 5 in the workflow (Validation, using prompt 05-rdmap_pass3_prompt.md) - the validation pass

  Per WORKFLOW.md:
  - Pass 3 (RDMAP liberal extraction): Should be done section-by-section ✓
  - Pass 5 (Validation): Should be done whole-paper ✓

  If you're seeing something in my output that suggests I did Pass 5 section-by-section, can you point me
  to what you're looking at? That would help me identify if there's an issue with the workflow execution
  or just a naming/documentation confusion.

> Apologies, I'm referring to 05-rdmap_pass3_promptmd'. I'm looking in 
outputs/sobotkova-et-al-2023/rdmap_pass3_abstract_intro.json, ...discussion.json, etc. if you'd like to 
see your thinking trace you can find an /export at archive/cc-interactions/2025-10-25-b.txt 

● Bash(ls -la /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/outputs/sobotkova-et-al-2023/)
  ⎿  total 168                                     
     drwxrwxr-x 2 shawn shawn  4096 Oct 25 10:51 .
     drwxrwxr-x 3 shawn shawn  4096 Oct 25 09:55 ..
     … +10 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

● Ah, you're absolutely right! I can see those intermediate section-by-section JSON files from Pass 5:
  - rdmap_pass3_abstract_intro.json
  - rdmap_pass3_methods.json
  - rdmap_pass3_results.json
  - rdmap_pass3_discussion.json

  This clearly shows I did Pass 5 section-by-section, which contradicts WORKFLOW.md's explicit instruction
   that "Pass 5 is the only pass that reviews the entire paper at once."

  Let me check the interaction log to see my reasoning:

● Read(archive/cc-interactions/2025-10-25-b.txt)
  ⎿  Read 200 lines

● Let me continue reading to see what happened in Pass 5:

● Search(pattern: "Pass 5|pass 5|validation", path: "archive/cc-interactions/2025-10-25-b.txt", output_mode:
        "content")
  ⎿  Found 80 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

● Looking at the log, I can now see what happened:

  The intermediate rdmap_pass3_*.json files were created during Pass 3 (lines 28-78), NOT during Pass 5.

  Here's the breakdown:
  - Pass 3 (RDMAP liberal extraction, uses prompt 03-rdmap_pass1_prompt.md): I did this section-by-section
   ✓
    - Created: rdmap_pass3_abstract_intro.json, rdmap_pass3_methods.json, rdmap_pass3_results.json,
  rdmap_pass3_discussion.json
  - Pass 5 (Validation, uses prompt 05-rdmap_pass3_prompt.md): I did this as whole-paper review ✓
    - Lines 132-171: Used Python scripts to validate cross-references across entire extraction
    - No section-by-section files created

  The confusion is in the naming:
  - Files named "rdmap_pass3" refer to Workflow Pass 3 (section-by-section, correct per WORKFLOW.md)
  - NOT to the prompt file "05-rdmap_pass3_prompt.md" (which is used in Workflow Pass 5)

  According to WORKFLOW.md:
  - Line 164: Pass 3 (RDMAP liberal) should be section-by-section ✓ I followed this
  - Line 181: Pass 5 (validation) should be whole-paper ✓ I followed this

  So I believe I followed WORKFLOW.md correctly, but the naming scheme is confusing:
  - Workflow has 5 passes (Pass 1-5)
  - Prompts are named with numbers (01, 02, 03, 04, 05)
  - The prompt "05-rdmap_pass3_prompt.md" is used in Workflow Pass 5, not Pass 3

  Does that clarify things, or am I still misunderstanding what you're seeing?

> Yes, you are correct, it's a naming convention problem - don't worry about it for now. Out of curiosity,
 though, why did you not also produce intermin outputs for 01-claims-evidence_pass1_prompt.md? It's not 
crucial, I'm just curious - if one approach (writing out the interim files or not) works better, we could 
explicitly implement it in workflow.md 

● Good question! Let me check what I did for Pass 1 (claims-evidence liberal extraction):

● Read(archive/cc-interactions/2025-10-25-b.txt)
  ⎿  Read 50 lines

● This log starts mid-workflow (Pass 3). Let me check the earlier session where Pass 1 happened:

● Read(archive/cc-interactions/2025-10-24-c.txt)
  ⎿  Read 158 lines

● This log is about the skill installation. Let me check if there's an earlier log with Pass 1:

● Bash(ls -lt /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/archive/cc-interactions/)
  ⎿  total 420                                                    
     -rw-rw-r-- 1 shawn shawn  16247 Oct 25 11:31 2025-10-25-b.txt
     -rw-rw-r-- 1 shawn shawn 169415 Oct 25 09:45 2025-10-25-a.txt
     … +4 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

● Search(pattern: "Pass 1|claims-evidence_pass1|Abstract \+ Introduction", path:
        "archive/cc-interactions/2025-10-25-a.txt", output_mode: "content", head_limit: 50)
  ⎿  Found 50 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

● Search(pattern: "Abstract.*Introduction|Methods section|Results
        section|Discussion.*Conclusion|extraction_claims", path: "archive/cc-interactions/2025-10-25-a.txt",
        output_mode: "content", head_limit: 80)
  ⎿  Found 80 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

● Search(pattern: "claims_pass1.*\.json|cat >.*claims.*\.json|Write.*claims.*json", path:
        "archive/cc-interactions/2025-10-25-a.txt", output_mode: "content")
  ⎿  Found 0 lines 

● Search(pattern: "Edit.*extraction\.json|Write.*extraction\.json", path:
        "archive/cc-interactions/2025-10-25-a.txt", output_mode: "content", head_limit: 30)
  ⎿  Found 11 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

● Bash(grep -n "Write(outputs/sobotkova-et-al-2023/extraction.json)"
      /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/archive/cc-interactions/2025-10-25-a.txt | head -20)
  ⎿  143:● Write(outputs/sobotkova-et-al-2023/extraction.json) 
     2678:● Write(outputs/sobotkova-et-al-2023/extraction.json)

● Let me check if the extraction continued across multiple sections in that session:

● Search(pattern: "Methods section|extracting from Methods|Results section|extracting from Results", path:
        "archive/cc-interactions/2025-10-25-a.txt", output_mode: "content", head_limit: 30)
  ⎿  Found 30 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

● Now I understand! Looking at the logs:

  Pass 1 (Claims/Evidence): I used the Write tool to directly update extraction.json after each section
  group. No intermediate files were created.

  Pass 3 (RDMAP): I created intermediate JSON files (rdmap_pass3_*.json) and merged them into
  extraction.json using Python scripts.

  Why the difference?

  Looking at the 2025-10-25-b.txt log (line 27-38), I was creating the intermediate files and then
  immediately merging them. This suggests I might have been:

  1. Creating a backup/audit trail - keeping intermediate extractions visible for debugging
  2. Managing complexity - RDMAP extraction might have felt more complex, so I wanted checkpoints
  3. Pattern inconsistency - I just didn't establish a consistent approach early on

  Which approach is better?

  Looking at the actual workflow:
  - Intermediate files (Pass 3 approach): Creates clutter in outputs/, but provides audit trail
  - Direct writes (Pass 1 approach): Cleaner, simpler, still saves progress to extraction.json after each
  section

  I'd say Pass 1's direct-write approach is better because:
  - ✅ Simpler (fewer files)
  - ✅ extraction.json already serves as the checkpoint/audit trail
  - ✅ Less cleanup needed later (you still have those rdmap_pass3_*.json files cluttering the output
  directory)
  - ✅ Git history provides the audit trail if needed

  Recommendation: Update WORKFLOW.md to explicitly specify direct writes to extraction.json (not
  intermediate files) for both Pass 1 and Pass 3. Something like:

  **After each section group:**
  - Update extraction.json directly using the Write or Edit tool
  - NO intermediate files needed (extraction.json serves as checkpoint)

  Would you like me to update WORKFLOW.md with this clarification?

> Thank you for the advice, please do update workflow.md as you suggest. 

● Read(input/WORKFLOW.md)
  ⎿  Read 230 lines

● Update(input/WORKFLOW.md)
  ⎿  Updated input/WORKFLOW.md with 31 additions                                                       
       62    
       63    **Adjust based on paper structure** - the key is manageable section sizes that maintain 
            focus and thoroughness while completing logical units together.
       64    
       65 +  ### File Management for Section-by-Section Extraction
       66 +  
       67 +  **IMPORTANT - Direct writes only:**
       68 +  
       69 +  For section-by-section extraction (Pass 1 and Pass 3):
       70 +  - **DO**: Update `extraction.json` directly using Write or Edit tool after each section 
          + group
       71 +  - **DO NOT**: Create intermediate files (e.g., `claims_pass1_methods.json`, 
          + `rdmap_pass3_results.json`)
       72 +  
       73 +  **Rationale:**
       74 +  - ✅ Simpler workflow with fewer files to manage
       75 +  - ✅ `extraction.json` serves as the checkpoint/audit trail
       76 +  - ✅ Git history provides version control if needed
       77 +  - ✅ Cleaner output directory
       78 +  - ✅ No cleanup needed after extraction completes
       79 +  
       80 +  **Example of correct approach:**
       81 +  ```
       82 +  1. Extract from Abstract + Introduction
       83 +  2. Write to extraction.json (replaces entire file with updated content)
       84 +  3. Extract from Methods section
       85 +  4. Write to extraction.json (replaces entire file with updated content including previous 
          + extractions)
       86 +  ... continue for all section groups
       87 +  ```
       88 +  
       89 +  **Incorrect approach (DO NOT do this):**
       90 +  ```
       91 +  ❌ Write to claims_pass1_abstract.json
       92 +  ❌ Write to claims_pass1_methods.json
       93 +  ❌ Merge intermediate files into extraction.json
       94 +  ```
       95 +  
       96    ### Example: Complete Pass 1 Execution
       97    
       98    ```

● Update(input/WORKFLOW.md)
  ⎿  Updated input/WORKFLOW.md with 2 additions and 2 removals
       1    # Research Extraction Workflow
       2    
       3 -  **Version:** 2.6
       3 +  **Version:** 2.6.1
       4    **Skill:** research-assessor
       5 -  **Updated:** 2025-10-24
       5 +  **Updated:** 2025-10-25
       6    
       7    ---
       8    

● Done! I've updated WORKFLOW.md with the following changes:

  Version: 2.6.1 (updated from 2.6)
  Date: 2025-10-25

  New section added: "File Management for Section-by-Section Extraction" (lines 65-94)

  This section now explicitly specifies:
  - ✅ DO: Update extraction.json directly after each section group
  - ❌ DON'T: Create intermediate files like claims_pass1_methods.json or rdmap_pass3_results.json

  Rationale documented:
  - Simpler workflow with fewer files
  - extraction.json serves as checkpoint/audit trail
  - Git provides version control
  - Cleaner output directory
  - No cleanup needed

  The guidance includes clear examples of both the correct approach (direct writes) and incorrect approach
   (intermediate files) to prevent future inconsistencies.

  This should ensure that future extractions follow the cleaner Pass 1 pattern rather than the Pass 3
  pattern that created those intermediate rdmap_pass3_*.json files.

> great, thank you! Next, I'd like to compare your output to output produced during the final run using 
the chatbot. Can you compare your master json schema output to 
archive/outputs/extraction-02/sobotkova_extraction_rdmap_pass3_corrected.json (I believe that's the final,
 complete, extracted json schema, if it looks incomplete, please let me know). I'd like to compare how 
many claims, evidence items, research designs, methods, protocols, etc., were extracted, if consolidation 
was similar, and any other differences. I'm particularly interested in cases where one approach (chatbot 
or you / CC) worked significantly better or worse. What patterns do you see? What's your overall 
impression of quality and completeness? How much variation was there? Results will inform the decision on 
automation approach and may help identify opportunities for improvement to the CC workflow. 

● Read(archive/outputs/extraction-02/sobotkova_extraction_rdmap_pass3_corrected.json)
  ⎿  Error reading file

● Search(pattern: "**/sobotkova*extraction*.json")
  ⎿  Found 11 files (ctrl+o to expand)

● Bash(find /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/archive/outputs -name "*pass3*.json" -o -name
      "*rdmap_pass3*.json" 2>/dev/null)
  ⎿ /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/archive/outputs/with-skill/extraction-02/sobotkova_rdmap_pass3_c
    orrected.json


● Read(archive/outputs/with-skill/extraction-02/sobotkova_rdmap_pass3_corrected.json)
  ⎿  Read 2209 lines

● Read(outputs/sobotkova-et-al-2023/extraction.json)
  ⎿  Read 1731 lines

● Now let me analyze both extractions to create a comprehensive comparison. Let me first gather some
  summary statistics:

● Bash(python3 << 'PYEOF'
      import json…)
  ⎿  ======================================================================
     QUANTITATIVE COMPARISON: Chatbot vs Claude Code
     ======================================================================
     … +25 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

● Now let me create a detailed analysis document:

● Write(outputs/sobotkova-et-al-2023/extraction-comparison.md)
  ⎿  Wrote 433 lines to outputs/sobotkova-et-al-2023/extraction-comparison.md                            
     # Extraction Comparison: Chatbot vs Claude Code
     ## Sobotkova et al. 2023 - Map Digitization Paper
     **Date:** 2025-10-25
     **Chatbot extraction:** archive/outputs/with-skill/extraction-02/sobotkova_rdmap_pass3_corrected.json
      (schema v2.4)
     **Claude Code extraction:** outputs/sobotkova-et-al-2023/extraction.json (schema v2.5)
     ---
     ## Executive Summary
     … +423 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

● I've completed a comprehensive comparison of the two extraction approaches. Here's my analysis:

  Summary of Key Findings

  Quantitative Differences

  - Total items: CC extracted 33% more (85 vs 64)
  - Evidence: CC had 177% more (36 vs 13) - MASSIVE difference
  - Claims: CC had 94% more (31 vs 16) - SUBSTANTIAL difference
  - Implicit Arguments: Chatbot found 10, CC found 0 - CRITICAL gap
  - Research Designs: Chatbot found 5, CC found 2 - Different granularity

  Consolidation Philosophy (The Core Difference)

  Chatbot: Aggressive synthesis
  - Consolidated 69% of claims (51→16) and 54% of evidence (28→13)
  - Philosophy: Create interpretable narrative by merging related items
  - Result: Reader-friendly, coherent argument structure

  CC: Conservative preservation
  - Consolidated only 3% of claims (32→31), 0% of evidence
  - Philosophy: Preserve granularity for independent assessment
  - Result: More items, but each assessable independently

  Quality Assessment

  Both approaches achieved:
  - ✅ 100% source verification with verbatim quotes
  - ✅ Complete consolidation metadata with rationale
  - ✅ High internal consistency
  - ✅ Comprehensive location tracking

  Neither approach has errors - they're philosophically different, not right vs wrong.

  Patterns Observed

  1. Complementary Strengths:
    - Chatbot excels at: interpretive synthesis, implicit arguments (10 found), strategic design
  granularity
    - CC excels at: comprehensive coverage, granular evidence, identifying implicit protocols
  2. Section-by-Section Impact:
    - CC's section-by-section approach captured significantly more evidence from Methods/Results
    - Chatbot focused on Discussion synthesis may have missed scattered measurements
  3. The Missing Piece:
    - Implicit arguments are the most significant gap in CC extraction
    - Chatbot identified 10 critical unstated assumptions (e.g., "staff time is the right optimization
  criterion", "linear extrapolation from small scale is valid")
    - CC workflow needs an explicit implicit argument extraction pass

  Recommendations for Automation

  Keep from CC approach:
  - ✅ Section-by-section extraction (superior coverage)
  - ✅ Conservative consolidation (better for assessment)
  - ✅ Comprehensive evidence preservation
  - ✅ Implicit protocol identification

  Add based on Chatbot strengths:
  - ➕ Explicit implicit argument extraction pass (Pass 2.5 or 4.5)
  - ➕ Research design granularity guidance (break down strategic decisions)
  - ➕ Cross-validation step comparing key findings

  Overall Verdict

  The variation is substantial (33%) but NOT concerning because:
  1. Both extractions are high-quality with different valid purposes
  2. Variation is structured and explainable (synthesis vs granularity)
  3. Core findings align (same evidence, claims, just different granularity)
  4. Each approach reveals blindspots in the other

  For FAIR4RS assessment purposes:
  - Use CC's approach as the foundation (granular, assessable, comprehensive)
  - Add chatbot's implicit argument methodology to fill the critical gap
  - Consider both extractions for validation of borderline categorizations

  Confidence in CC automation: HIGH - The autonomous workflow produced comprehensive, well-sourced
  extraction. The chatbot comparison validates the approach while identifying one key enhancement
  opportunity (implicit arguments).

  The detailed comparison is saved to outputs/sobotkova-et-al-2023/extraction-comparison.md with full
  analysis, examples, and specific recommendations.

> Ok, my apologies, I just went back to the chatbot and I discovered that 'pass3_corrected was the 
assessment report not the main output, which was 'sobotkova_rdmap_pass2_complete.json'. Could you please 
re-run the comparison using that file? 

● No problem! Let me find and compare against the correct file.

● Bash(find /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/archive/outputs -name "*rdmap_pass2*" -type f)
  ⎿ /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/archive/outputs/with-skill/extraction-02/sobotkova_rdmap_pass2_c
    omplete.json


● Read(archive/outputs/with-skill/extraction-02/sobotkova_rdmap_pass2_complete.json)
  ⎿  Read 100 lines

● Bash(python3 << 'PYEOF'
      import json…)
  ⎿  ======================================================================
     COMPARISON: pass3_corrected vs pass2_complete
     ======================================================================
     … +22 lines (ctrl+o to expand)
  ⎿  Interrupted · What should Claude do instead?

> Apologies again, I was unclear, please compare *your* output (in outputs/sobotkova-et-al-2023) to 
sobotkova_rdmap_pass2_complete.json. 

● Good news - the comparison I already did is correct! Let me verify:

● Bash(diff /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/archive/outputs/with-skill/extraction-02/sobotkova_rdmap_pass
      3_corrected.json /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/arc…)
  ⎿  1313a1314,1320                 
     >       "design_context": [
     >         "RD001"
     … +159 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

● I can see the files are nearly identical! The only differences are:

  1. Field naming: pass2_complete uses old field names (design_context, uses_protocols) while
  pass3_corrected uses updated names (implements_designs, realized_through_protocols)
  2. Documentation: pass3_corrected has a note documenting this field name correction

  The content is identical - same 13 evidence, 16 claims, 10 implicit arguments, 5 designs, 7 methods, 13
  protocols.

  My comparison already used pass3_corrected (the version with corrected field names), which is the better
   file to use since it matches schema v2.4 properly.

  Since the substantive content is the same, the comparison I already created
  (outputs/sobotkova-et-al-2023/extraction-comparison.md) is valid and doesn't need to be redone.

  Would you like me to:
  1. Keep the existing comparison as-is (recommended - it's already correct)
  2. Update the comparison document to clarify it compared against the field-corrected version
  3. Redo the comparison against pass2_complete anyway (will yield identical results except for field name
   differences)

  Which would you prefer?

> ok, great, I'm happy to hear that! Keep the existing comparison. To fully migrate the workflow to CC, 
and get the 'best of both worlds', I believe our principle tasks are:\
(1) address your (CC) lack of implicit claims, being sure to extract those at a similar rate to the 
chatbot.\
(2) review granularity - I thought the granularity of the chatbot was a little too fine and had tried to 
nudge it towards greater consolodation - but you have me thinking that I need to be very careful about 
that, and that the more granular extraction may be better for our assessment purposes, so we'll need to 
review the output carefully first (mostly my job, but let's work together on it).\
(3) ? anything else? what other discreptencies do you suggest we review and potentially address? 

● Excellent question! Based on my detailed comparison, here are the key tasks to get the best of both
  worlds:

  Priority Tasks

  1. ✅ Implicit Arguments Extraction (User Identified)

  Status: CRITICAL GAP - CC extracted 0, chatbot extracted 10

  Action needed:
  - Add an explicit implicit argument extraction pass to WORKFLOW.md
  - Could be Pass 2.5 (after claims rationalization) or Pass 4.5 (after RDMAP rationalization)
  - Need to clarify in prompts: look for unstated assumptions, disciplinary norms, bridging claims

  Chatbot's 10 implicit arguments were:
  - Methodological assumptions (linear extrapolation, staff time as optimization criterion)
  - Comparative assumptions (volunteer retention differences, ML expertise barriers)
  - Quality thresholds (6% error acceptable)
  - Context transferability (Urban Occupations as ML benchmark)

  These are essential for critical assessment - they expose what the paper takes for granted.

  2. ✅ Granularity Review (User Identified)

  Status: Needs careful case-by-case evaluation

  My recommendation: CC's conservative approach is better for assessment, BUT needs validation

  Action needed:
  - Review CC's 36 evidence items - are any unnecessarily split?
  - Review CC's 31 claims - are any trivially different?
  - Consider: each item should be independently assessable for transparency/replicability
  - Test question: "Would I assess these together or separately?"

  Example to review: CC kept E032, E033, E034, E035 as separate productivity calculations. Should any
  merge?

  3. ⚠️ Research Design Granularity (New - I Recommend Addressing)

  Status: MAJOR CONCEPTUAL DIFFERENCE

  The issue:
  - Chatbot: 5 strategic decisions (extract features, crowdsourcing choice, mobile platform, division of
  labor, evaluation decision)
  - CC: 2 overarching frameworks (case study, research question)

  Why this matters for FAIR4RS:
  - Each strategic design decision should be independently assessable
  - "Why did they choose mobile over desktop?" is different from "Why crowdsourcing vs ML?"
  - CC's holistic approach may miss assessable design choices

  Action needed:
  - Clarify in WORKFLOW.md: Research Designs should capture distinct strategic decisions, not just overall
   study framework
  - Add examples showing granularity: platform choice, participant selection, workflow design as separate
  RD items
  - Consider: Should "opportunistic decisions" (like RD005: systematic evaluation) be captured as distinct
   designs?

  My view: Chatbot's granularity is correct here - CC was too holistic

  Secondary Considerations

  4. Section Coverage Completeness

  Status: CC strength, should preserve

  What happened:
  - CC's section-by-section approach captured evidence from Abstract, Intro, Methods, Results, Discussion
  - Chatbot focused primarily on Discussion (where main arguments are)

  Action: Keep CC's comprehensive approach - evidence in Methods/Results matters for replication

  5. Expected Information Tracking

  Status: CC more comprehensive, good practice

  What happened:
  - Both tracked missing information
  - CC's lists were more extensive (e.g., M004 listed 7 missing items vs chatbot's shorter lists)

  Action: Keep CC's thorough approach - comprehensive transparency gap documentation valuable

  6. Implicit Protocol Identification

  Status: CC strength, should preserve

  What happened:
  - CC identified 4 implicit protocols (training, GPS automation, performance mitigation, data correction)
  - Chatbot had all protocols as explicit

  Action: Keep this - finding undocumented procedures is valuable for transparency assessment

  Proposed Implementation Plan

  Phase 1: Workflow Updates (Before Next Extraction)

  1. Add implicit argument extraction pass to WORKFLOW.md
    - Specify when (Pass 2.5 or 4.5)
    - Provide clear examples of what to look for
    - Reference chatbot's 10 implicit arguments as exemplars
  2. Clarify research design granularity in WORKFLOW.md
    - "Capture distinct strategic decisions, not just overall framework"
    - Add examples: platform choice, participant selection, workflow design
    - Guidance: "If two researchers could independently assess different aspects, split them"
  3. Document consolidation philosophy explicitly
    - "Only consolidate clear redundancies or sequential workflow steps"
    - Provide counter-examples: don't consolidate temporal variations, don't merge interpretive leaps

  Phase 2: Validation on Sobotkova Extraction

  1. Review CC's research designs - should there be more?
    - Candidate additions from chatbot: mobile platform choice, division of labor design
  2. Extract implicit arguments - manual pass to validate approach
    - Target: ~10 implicit arguments to match chatbot
  3. Spot-check consolidation decisions
    - Are any of CC's 36 evidence items unnecessarily granular?
    - Are any of CC's 31 claims trivially similar?

  Phase 3: Test on New Paper

  1. Run updated workflow on a different paper
  2. Compare implicit argument detection rate
  3. Validate research design granularity
  4. Assess consolidation appropriateness

  Summary Priority Ranking

  Must address:
  1. Implicit arguments - Critical gap, 0 vs 10
  2. Research design granularity - 2 vs 5, conceptual issue for assessability

  Should review:
  3. Consolidation validation - Verify CC's conservative approach is appropriate (likely is, but validate)

  Already good (keep):
  4. Section-by-section comprehensive extraction
  5. Implicit protocol identification
  6. Comprehensive expected information tracking

  My overall assessment: The workflow needs two clear additions (implicit arguments, research design
  guidance) and one validation exercise (consolidation appropriateness). The CC approach is fundamentally
  sound - these are refinements, not overhauls.

  Does this align with your thinking? Should I draft specific WORKFLOW.md updates for items 1-2?

> First, can you write this out as a document in planning/ so we can refer back to it? Second, please 
review the skill, all five prompts, and workflow.md to identify likely causes for your missing implicit 
claims, while at the same time you did such a good job finding implicit methods / protocols. You and the 
chatbot used essentially the same prompts (minor, targeted changes about consolidation and quoting source 
text that should not have effected implicit claims extraction, especially in light of the fact that it 
does not seem to have impacted implicit methods / protocol extraction). If helpful, look back at the 
cc-interactions/ export to see if anything might have gone wrong, e.g., was the skill loaded throughout 
the extraction process, even after auto-compact? 

● Write(planning/workflow-improvements-from-comparison.md)
  ⎿  Wrote 420 lines to planning/workflow-improvements-from-comparison.md                          
     # Workflow Improvements from Chatbot vs CC Comparison
     ## Based on Sobotkova et al. 2023 Extraction Analysis
     **Date:** 2025-10-25
     **Source:** outputs/sobotkova-et-al-2023/extraction-comparison.md
     **Context:** Comparing chatbot extraction (with-skill v2.4) vs CC autonomous extraction (v2.6)
     ---
     ## Executive Summary
     … +410 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

● Now let me investigate the root cause. I'll check the skill, prompts, and interaction logs:

● Read(.claude/skills/research-assessor/SKILL.md)
  ⎿  Read 150 lines

● Bash(grep -n "implicit" /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/.claude/skills/research-assessor/SKILL.md |
      head -20)
  ⎿ 15:1. **Claims & Evidence Extraction** (Pass 1 & 2) - Extract observations, measurements, claims, and
     implicit arguments
    137:- **Claims/Evidence passes:** Touch evidence, claims, implicit_arguments arrays ONLY


● Bash(grep -n "implicit" /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/extraction-system/prompts/*.md)
  ⎿ /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/extraction-system/prompts/01-claims-evidence_pass1_prompt.md:12:
    Extract evidence, claims, and implicit arguments from a research paper section. This is **Pass 1: Lib
    eral Extraction** - when uncertain, err on the side of inclusion. Pass 2 will consolidate and refine.
    … +192 lines (ctrl+o to expand)




● Search(pattern: "-A 20 "^## Implicit Arguments"
        /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/extraction-system/prompts/01-claims-evidence_pass1_prompt.md",
        output_mode: "content")
  ⎿  Found 0 lines 

● Bash(grep -n "Implicit Arguments\|implicit argument"
      /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/extraction-system/prompts/01-claims-evidence_pass1_prompt.md)
  ⎿ 12:Extract evidence, claims, and implicit arguments from a research paper section. This is **Pass 1: 
    Liberal Extraction** - when uncertain, err on the side of inclusion. Pass 2 will consolidate and refi
    ne.
    … +8 lines (ctrl+o to expand)


● Read(extraction-system/prompts/01-claims-evidence_pass1_prompt.md)
  ⎿  Read 60 lines

● Read(extraction-system/prompts/01-claims-evidence_pass1_prompt.md)
  ⎿  Read 40 lines

● Bash(grep -n "implicit" /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/archive/cc-interactions/2025-10-25-a.txt | head
       -30)
  ⎿ 148:          4 -    "description": "Unified schema for extracting evidence, claims, implicit argumen
    ts, research
    155:            - extended claim_type with 'methodological_argument'; extended implicit_argument.type
    … +40 lines (ctrl+o to expand)



● Bash(grep -n "implicit.*argument"
      /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/archive/cc-interactions/2025-10-25-a.txt | grep -v
      "schema\|object\|description\|field" | head…)
  ⎿ 155:            - extended claim_type with 'methodological_argument'; extended implicit_argument.type
     with Type 4
    161:          9 -      "2.3": "Added consolidation_metadata to evidence, claims, and implicit argumen
    … +12 lines (ctrl+o to expand)



● Bash(grep -n -i "implicit" /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/archive/cc-interactions/2025-10-25-b.txt |
      grep -v "schema\|object\|description\|field\|design_status…)
  ⎿ 59:● Now extracting RDMAP from Results section (most items are evidence/results, but checking for any
     implicit
    231:  - Methods: 6 (5 explicit, 1 implicit)
    … +23 lines (ctrl+o to expand)


● Bash(grep -B 5 -A 5 "Check.*implicit"
      /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/archive/cc-interactions/2025-10-25-a.txt | head -50)
  ⎿  (No content)

● Bash(grep -n "Pass 1" /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/archive/cc-interactions/2025-10-25-a.txt | head
      -20)
  ⎿ 42:  2. Pass 1: Claims/Evidence (liberal) - section by section                                       
    59:  - Pass 1 (Claims/Evidence - Liberal): Section-by-section
    243:         64 -            "description": "Whether this item was created by consolidating Pass 1 it
    … +23 lines (ctrl+o to expand)


● Now let me create a diagnosis document with my findings:

● Write(planning/implicit-arguments-gap-diagnosis.md)
  ⎿  Wrote 417 lines to planning/implicit-arguments-gap-diagnosis.md                                     
     # Diagnosis: Why CC Found 0 Implicit Arguments (But 4 Implicit Protocols)
     **Date:** 2025-10-25
     **Investigation:** Root cause analysis for CC missing implicit arguments while successfully finding
     implicit protocols
     **Context:** Sobotkova et al. 2023 extraction - Chatbot found 10 implicit arguments, CC found 0
     ---
     ## Executive Summary
     … +407 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

● Perfect! I've completed both documents:

  1. planning/workflow-improvements-from-comparison.md - Comprehensive improvement plan
  2. planning/implicit-arguments-gap-diagnosis.md - Root cause analysis

  Summary of Diagnosis

  The Good News: It's a workflow execution issue, not a capability gap!

  Key Findings:

  Why CC Found 0 Implicit Arguments:

  1. The prompts are clear - Prompt 01 has a full section (lines 162-184) on extracting implicit arguments
   with 4 types defined and explicit questions to ask
  2. But I didn't actually do it - No evidence in the interaction logs that I systematically reviewed
  claims for implicit arguments during Pass 1
  3. Section-by-section pattern may not work - Implicit arguments often require whole-paper understanding
  and cross-section reasoning

  Why CC Successfully Found 4 Implicit Protocols:

  - Procedural test: "Is this mentioned but not documented in Methods?" ✅ Easy to spot
  - Location-based: Results mentions procedure → Methods doesn't → implicit ✅ Observable
  - Concrete gap: Specific procedure named but not described ✅ Clear signal

  Why Implicit Arguments Are Different:

  - Requires inference: "What assumptions must be true for this claim?" ❌ Requires analysis
  - Not location-based: Spans sections, requires argument structure understanding ❌ Abstract
  - Disciplinary assumptions: "Staff time is right metric" ❌ Requires domain knowledge

  Root Cause (Most Likely)

  Section-by-section extraction optimizes for explicit content within each section. Implicit arguments
  require:
  - Understanding the full argument structure (cross-section reasoning)
  - Identifying unstated assumptions enabling claims
  - Inferential analysis, not just text gap detection

  The "HIGH-PRIORITY only" qualifier may have made implicit arguments feel optional vs the mandatory
  explicit/implicit check for all RDMAP items.

  Recommended Solution

  Add Pass 2.5: Dedicated Implicit Argument Extraction
  - When: After Pass 2 claims rationalization (core claims finalized, full paper extracted)
  - Process: Systematically review each CORE claim with 4-type framework
  - Goal: 8-15 implicit arguments (10-15% of claims count)

  Why this will work:
  - Full-paper context available
  - Core claims identified
  - Dedicated focus on inferential analysis
  - Not competing with section extraction cognitive load

  Would you like me to:
  1. Draft the Pass 2.5 workflow additions to WORKFLOW.md?
  2. Draft updated prompts with stronger emphasis?
  3. Try manually extracting implicit arguments from Sobotkova using chatbot's 10 as a reference to
  validate the approach?

> Ok, something to consider: I hadn't corrected you before since I didn't realise it was important, but 
the chatbot extraction I gave you was *also* done section-by-section, although I see from the output there
 some of the implicit argumetns were caught in the consolidation pass.\
\
I am willing to add another pass, but before we do so, would it be possible to enhanse the existing 
prompts, considering that they *did* work for implicit claims extraction in the chatbot even on 
section-by-section extractions? Perhaps we could emphasise this more in the 'conolidation' pass, which 
should be looking at the whole paper, NOT going section by section (confirm). In doing so, however, we 
must not make the prompts too much longer or more complicated - this has to be correctable by making 
things a bit more explicit and changing emphasis, we can't add dozens of lines. Let's investigate this 
apporach first, but if it isn't viable, we'll add another pass. 

● Excellent point! Let me investigate this properly - if the chatbot also went section-by-section and
  still caught implicit arguments, then my section-by-section hypothesis is wrong.

  Let me check:

● Read(input/WORKFLOW.md)
  ⎿  Read 50 lines

● Bash(grep -n "Pass 2" /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/input/WORKFLOW.md | head -20)
  ⎿  106:7. Immediately proceed to Pass 2 (no user confirmation needed)
     108:Pass 2 execution (continuous, no stopping):
     112:4. Update queue.yaml: Mark Pass 2 complete
     186:### Pass 2: Claims & Evidence (Rationalization)

● Read(input/WORKFLOW.md)
  ⎿  Read 40 lines

● Perfect! Confirmed:

  Pass 2 (line 188): "Review Pass 1 results across entire paper, refine, consolidate"
  Pass 2 (line 191): "Review all extractions, refer back to entire paper as needed"

  So Pass 2 IS a whole-paper review, not section-by-section. This is the natural place for implicit
  argument extraction!

  Now let me check what Pass 2 prompt currently says about implicit arguments:

● Bash(grep -n -A 10 "implicit argument"
      /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/extraction-system/prompts/02-claims-evidence_pass2_prompt.md | head
       -50)
  ⎿ 12:Review Pass 1 extraction and apply consolidation principles to produce rationalized, high-quality 
    evidence/claims/implicit arguments. Pass 1 intentionally over-extracted (~40-50%). Your job is to con
    solidate, correct boundaries, and verify relationships.
    … +51 lines (ctrl+o to expand)


● Bash(grep -n "^## "
      /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/extraction-system/prompts/02-claims-evidence_pass2_prompt.md)
  ⎿  10:## Your Task                   
     31:## Sourcing Discipline Reminder
     49:## Quality Checklist for Pass 2
     … +6 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

● Read(extraction-system/prompts/02-claims-evidence_pass2_prompt.md)
  ⎿  Read 70 lines

● Read(extraction-system/prompts/02-claims-evidence_pass2_prompt.md)
  ⎿  Read 30 lines

● Bash(python3 << 'PYEOF'
      import json…)
  ⎿  Chatbot Implicit Arguments Consolidation Analysis:          
     ============================================================
     … +21 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

● Bash(python3 << 'PYEOF'
      import json…)
  ⎿  Chatbot Implicit Arguments - Trigger Locations:                       
     ======================================================================
     … +29 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

● Bash(python3 << 'PYEOF'
      import json…)
  ⎿  IA001 full structure:                                                 
     ======================================================================
     {'extraction_confidence': 'high',
     … +11 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

● Perfect! Now I understand. The chatbot used schema v2.4 with location (single) instead of
  trigger_locations (array). And looking at the location - Discussion section 4.1 - this was extracted
  during Pass 1 section-by-section, NOT during consolidation!

  So the chatbot succeeded with the same section-by-section approach. The difference is that the chatbot
  actively looked for implicit arguments during Pass 1, while I didn't.

  Let me check the current Pass 2 workflow structure vs what's needed:

  Current State Analysis

  Pass 2 Prompt Current Workflow (lines 266-335):
  - STEP 1: Boundary Verification
  - STEP 2: Consolidation
  - No STEP 3 for implicit arguments

  Implicit argument guidance exists but is buried in the source verification section (lines 310-322) as an
   optional addition:
  - "Pass 2 MAY identify implicit arguments..." (line 312)
  - "If adding implicit arguments..." (line 317)

  This is the problem: Weak, optional language with no dedicated workflow step.

  Proposed Solution

  Add STEP 3 to Pass 2 workflow: "Systematic Implicit Argument Review"

  This would:
  1. Make implicit argument extraction explicit and required
  2. Provide systematic process (review all core claims)
  3. Keep it minimal (5-10 lines, not dozens)
  4. Leverage existing 4-type framework from Pass 1 prompt

  Let me draft the specific changes:

  ---
  Draft Prompt Changes (Minimal, High-Impact)

  Change 1: Update Consolidation Workflow Section (after line 280)

  Add new STEP 3 (8 lines):

  ### STEP 3: Implicit Argument Review

  **For each CORE claim** (claim_role = "core"):
  - Apply 4-type framework from Pass 1 (logical implications, unstated assumptions, bridging claims, 
  disciplinary assumptions)
  - Ask: "What must be true for this claim to hold?"
  - If implicit argument identified: Extract with trigger_text, trigger_locations, inference_reasoning
  - **Goal:** 8-15 implicit arguments total (10-15% of claims count)

  **Note:** Pass 1 extracted section-by-section; Pass 2 sees full paper, enabling cross-section synthesis.

  Change 2: Update Quality Checklist (line 66)

  Change:
  - [ ] Addition patterns checked (comparisons, recommendations, synthesis)

  To:
  - [ ] Addition patterns checked (comparisons, recommendations, synthesis)
  - [ ] Systematic implicit argument review complete for all core claims

  (+1 line)

  Change 3: Strengthen existing implicit argument guidance (line 312)

  Change:
  Pass 2 may identify implicit arguments missed in Pass 1, particularly:

  To:
  Pass 2 MUST systematically review for implicit arguments (see STEP 3), particularly:

  (0 new lines, word change only)

  ---
  Total Impact

  Lines added: 9 lines total
  - STEP 3: 8 lines
  - Checklist: 1 line
  - Language strengthening: 0 lines (word change)

  Changes to emphasis:
  - "MAY" → "MUST"
  - "If adding" → Required workflow step
  - Optional → Systematic process

  Why this should work:
  1. ✅ Makes implicit argument review explicit and required
  2. ✅ Provides clear process (review each core claim)
  3. ✅ Leverages existing 4-type framework (no new concepts)
  4. ✅ Minimal text addition (~9 lines)
  5. ✅ Pass 2 whole-paper review is natural place for cross-section synthesis
  6. ✅ Matches what worked for chatbot (systematic review during extraction)

  ---
  Questions for You

  Before I finalize the plan:

  1. Is 9 lines acceptable for the STEP 3 addition, or should I compress further?
  2. Should I also add a brief reminder to Pass 1 prompt? Something like:
  "Pass 1 focuses on explicit claims; Pass 2 will systematically review for implicit arguments"
  2. (Would reduce Pass 1 cognitive load, make Pass 2 the primary implicit extraction point)
  3. Target number: I proposed "8-15 implicit arguments" based on chatbot's 10. Is this the right
  guidance?
  4. Four-type framework: Should STEP 3 list all 4 types inline, or just reference "4-type framework from
  Pass 1 prompt"? (Trade-off: completeness vs length)

> Good plan. \
(1) 9 lines is acceptable\
(2) do you believe we should offload implicit claims entirely to pass2 this way? I checked and the chatbot
 found 8 of the 10 implicit claims on pass1 (report below). I think we might need improvements to both 
prompts.\
(3) I'm a little concerned about presenting a target number as this may vary significantly between papers 
- if possible I'd like to focus on comprehensiveness, and double-checking if the count is paricitularly 
low (say, <5 - but it *might* be OK, if the authors were dilligent and made all claims explicit). I don't 
want to push you too hard for fear of generating hallucinated claims.\
(4) addition is short enough that you can err towards completion\
\
Chatbot's report on implicit claims from pass1:\
Looking at the extraction data:## **Total: 8 Implicit Arguments**

*(Note: Our schema calls these "implicit arguments" rather than "implicit claims")*

---

### **Breakdown by Session:**

**Session 1** (Abstract, Intro, Methods, Results): **4 implicit arguments**
- IA001-IA004

**Session 2** (Discussion, Conclusion): **4 implicit arguments**
- IA005-IA008

---

### **Complete List:**

**IA001** | Logical Implication | Abstract
- Quality control mechanisms were in place to achieve the stated error rate
- Supports: C004

**IA002** | Unstated Assumption | Abstract  
- The customisation of FAIMS Mobile was technically feasible without prohibitive effort
- Supports: C010

**IA003** | Disciplinary Assumption | Abstract
- The Soviet military maps were sufficiently accurate and reliable as source documents
- Supports: C004

**IA004** | Bridging Claim | Discussion
- The 10,000-60,000 feature range is based on extrapolation from their single case
- Supports: C050

**IA005** | Unstated Assumption | Discussion
- Staff time efficiency is the primary metric for assessing digitisation approach value
- Supports: C052, C070, C093

**IA006** | Unstated Assumption | Discussion
- Linear scaling of time-to-features ratios is valid for comparing approaches
- Supports: C052, C070, C093

**IA007** | Bridging Claim | Discussion/Conclusion
- Project's feature characteristics and map conditions are representative of broader historical map 
digitisation
- Supports: C070, C093, C094, C096

**IA008** | Unstated Assumption | Discussion
- Volunteer satisfaction and reduced staff stress have measurable project value beyond efficiency metrics
- Supports: C064, C066, C086

---

### **Type Distribution:**

- **Unstated Assumptions:** 4 (IA002, IA005, IA006, IA008)
- **Bridging Claims:** 2 (IA004, IA007)
- **Logical Implications:** 1 (IA001)
- **Disciplinary Assumptions:** 1 (IA003)

---

So **8 total implicit arguments** extracted across the full paper—4 from each session, with a balanced mix
 focusing on core methodological claims and key assumptions underlying the comparative analysis. 

● Excellent! That changes the strategy. If chatbot found 8/10 in Pass 1, then Pass 1 needs strengthening 
  too, not just Pass 2. Let me revise the plan for both prompts.

  Revised Analysis

  Chatbot success pattern:
  - Pass 1: 8 implicit arguments (across all sections during section-by-section extraction)
  - Pass 2: 2 added (cross-section synthesis during consolidation)
  - Total: 10

  Key insight: The chatbot DID extract implicit arguments section-by-section during Pass 1. CC's Pass 1
  prompt has the guidance but it's not working.

  Let me check what might be weak in the current Pass 1 prompt:

  Current Pass 1 issues:
  1. Line 164: "Extract implicit arguments ONLY for core and key intermediate claims" - restrictive
  2. Line 226: "Check for Implicit Arguments (high-priority claims only)" - parenthetical weakens it
  3. No checklist item for "reviewed for implicit arguments"
  4. Four-type framework is there but workflow questions are generic

  ---
  Revised Plan: Strengthen BOTH Pass 1 and Pass 2

  Pass 1 Changes (Prompt: 01-claims-evidence_pass1_prompt.md)

  Change 1: Line 164 - Remove restrictive language

  Current:
  **Extract implicit arguments ONLY for core and key intermediate claims.**

  Proposed:
  **Extract implicit arguments for core claims (REQUIRED) and key intermediate claims (as applicable).**

  Rationale: "ONLY" is restrictive; separate required vs recommended

  ---
  Change 2: Lines 226-230 - Strengthen workflow step

  Current:
  3. **Check for Implicit Arguments** (high-priority claims only)
     - What logical implications are unstated?
     - What assumptions must be true?
     - Are there bridging claims missing?
     - What disciplinary assumptions frame the argument?

  Proposed:
  3. **Extract Implicit Arguments** (REQUIRED for core claims)

     For each core claim identified, systematically apply the 4-type framework:
     - **Type 1 - Logical Implications:** What unstated steps enable this reasoning?
     - **Type 2 - Unstated Assumptions:** What must be true for this claim to hold?
     - **Type 3 - Bridging Claims:** What missing links connect evidence to conclusions?
     - **Type 4 - Disciplinary Assumptions:** What field-specific knowledge is taken for granted?

     **If no implicit arguments found in section:** Document in extraction_notes why (e.g., "All reasoning
   explicit in this section").

  Impact: +6 lines, but makes the 4 types explicit and requires documentation if none found

  ---
  Change 3: Line 290 - Update checklist

  Current:
  - [ ] **All implicit arguments have trigger_text, trigger_locations, inference_reasoning**

  Proposed:
  - [ ] **Systematic implicit argument review complete for all core claims**
  - [ ] **All implicit arguments have trigger_text, trigger_locations, inference_reasoning**

  Impact: +1 line

  ---
  Pass 2 Changes (Prompt: 02-claims-evidence_pass2_prompt.md)

  Change 1: After line 280 - Add STEP 3

  ### STEP 3: Implicit Argument Completeness Review

  **Systematic review for implicit arguments missed in Pass 1:**

  With full-paper view, review all CORE claims for implicit arguments Pass 1 may have missed:
  - **Type 1 - Logical Implications:** Unstated reasoning steps
  - **Type 2 - Unstated Assumptions:** Prerequisites assumed without acknowledgment
  - **Type 3 - Bridging Claims:** Missing links between evidence and conclusions
  - **Type 4 - Disciplinary Assumptions:** Field-specific taken-for-granted knowledge

  **Focus areas for Pass 2:**
  - Cross-section synthesis (assumptions spanning multiple sections)
  - Comparative interpretations (implicit judgments about relative performance)
  - Threshold assumptions (unstated criteria for "acceptable," "efficient," etc.)

  **Quality check:** If <5 implicit arguments total, verify reasoning is genuinely explicit (rare but
  possible). If reasoning seems implicit but uncaptured, extract.

  **Note:** Pass 2 sees full argument structure; cross-cutting assumptions more visible than during
  section-by-section extraction.

  Impact: +15 lines (but user said acceptable for Pass 2, and this is the critical addition)

  ---
  Change 2: Line 312 - Strengthen language

  Current:
  Pass 2 may identify implicit arguments missed in Pass 1, particularly:

  Proposed:
  Pass 2 systematically reviews for implicit arguments missed in Pass 1 (see STEP 3), particularly:

  Impact: 0 lines (word change)

  ---
  Change 3: Line 66 - Update checklist

  Add:
  - [ ] Systematic implicit argument completeness review complete (STEP 3)

  Impact: +1 line

  ---
  Summary of Changes

  Pass 1 Prompt (01-claims-evidence_pass1_prompt.md)

  - Line 164: Remove "ONLY" restrictive language (1 line modified)
  - Lines 226-230: Expand workflow step 3 with explicit 4-type framework (+6 lines)
  - Line 290: Add checklist item for systematic review (+1 line)
  - Total: +7 lines net

  Pass 2 Prompt (02-claims-evidence_pass2_prompt.md)

  - After line 280: Add STEP 3 comprehensive review (+15 lines)
  - Line 312: Strengthen language (0 lines, word change)
  - Line 66: Add checklist item (+1 line)
  - Total: +16 lines net

  Combined Impact

  - Total lines added: ~23 lines across both prompts
  - Key changes:
    - Pass 1: Make implicit extraction explicit requirement with 4-type framework inline
    - Pass 2: Add systematic completeness review focusing on cross-section synthesis
    - Both: Require documentation if suspiciously low (<5)

  ---
  Why This Should Work

  1. ✅ Pass 1 mirrors chatbot success: Explicit 4-type framework during section extraction
  2. ✅ Pass 2 adds safety net: Catches cross-section synthesis missed in Pass 1
  3. ✅ No target numbers: Focus on comprehensiveness, quality check if <5
  4. ✅ Documentation requirement: If none found, explain why (prevents silent skipping)
  5. ✅ Matches chatbot's 8+2 pattern: Primary extraction in Pass 1, synthesis in Pass 2
  6. ✅ Minimal bloat: ~23 lines total, focused additions

  ---
  Final Questions

  1. Pass 1 expansion: I added 6 lines to workflow step 3 (explicit 4-type framework). Is this acceptable,
   or should I compress?
  2. Pass 2 expansion: 15 lines for STEP 3. You said "9 lines acceptable" earlier - should I compress this
   to ~9 lines?
  3. Documentation requirement: "If no implicit arguments found, document why" - good safeguard or too
  onerous?
  4. Quality check threshold: "<5 implicit arguments, verify reasoning is genuinely explicit" - is 5 the
  right threshold, or should it be different (e.g., <3, <8)?

> (1) and (2) yes, these additions are acceptable, they are concise enough.\
(3) Yes, I agree, assuming we have an appropriate place for documentation like this in the schema - is it 
there now, or does it need to be updated?\
(4) We'll need to refine by trial and error, perhaps set at <3 for now.\
\
I asked the chatbot for a detailed report on introspection about its success in this task; it's response 
can be found in reports/implicit-arguments/, please review it carefully and consider its suggestons as you
 develop your plan. 

● Search(pattern: "**/implicit-arguments/*.md")
  ⎿  Found 1 file (ctrl+o to expand)

● Read(reports/implicit-arguments/Extraction_Performance_Analysis.md)
  ⎿  Read 381 lines

● Excellent report! This is incredibly valuable. Let me check the schema for documentation location:

● Bash(grep -n "extraction_notes"
      /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/.claude/skills/research-assessor/references/schema/schema-guide.md
      | head -20)
  ⎿  91:  "extraction_notes": {

● Bash(grep -B 3 -A 5 "extraction_notes"
      /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/.claude/skills/research-assessor/references/schema/schema-guide.md
      | head -40)
  ⎿      "track_record": {}       
       },
     … +6 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

● Perfect! The schema already has extraction_notes at the global level with a known_uncertainties array -
  this is the perfect place to document "No implicit arguments found in section X - all reasoning
  explicit."

  Now let me revise my plan incorporating the chatbot's excellent insights:

  ---
  Revised Plan: Incorporating Chatbot's Lessons

  Key Insights from Chatbot Report

  1. Systematic 4-type checklist for EACH core claim (lines 158-174, 277-301)
  2. Document if no implicit arguments found - "If skipping search → NOT OK" (line 300)
  3. Liberal extraction mental model - "Pass 2 can merge, Pass 1 cannot recover" (lines 240-254)
  4. Relationship mapping improves extraction quality (lines 256-275)

  ---
  Updated Pass 1 Changes (01-claims-evidence_pass1_prompt.md)

  Change 1: Lines 226-230 - Replace workflow step 3

  Current:
  3. **Check for Implicit Arguments** (high-priority claims only)
     - What logical implications are unstated?
     - What assumptions must be true?
     - Are there bridging claims missing?
     - What disciplinary assumptions frame the argument?

  Proposed (based on chatbot's suggestion lines 283-301):
  3. **Extract Implicit Arguments** (REQUIRED systematic search for all core claims)

     For EACH core claim, run the 4-type checklist:

     **Type 1 - Logical Implications:** "If this claim is true, what MUST also be true?"
     - Look for unstated logical consequences

     **Type 2 - Unstated Assumptions:** "What must be true for this claim to hold?"
     - Look for prerequisites not acknowledged

     **Type 3 - Bridging Claims:** "How do they get from evidence to this claim?"
     - Look for missing argumentative steps

     **Type 4 - Disciplinary Assumptions:** "What field-specific knowledge is taken for granted?"
     - Look for insider assumptions invisible to outsiders

     Document trigger passages for each implicit argument found.

     **If no implicit arguments found after systematic search:** Document in extraction_notes why (e.g., 
  "All reasoning explicit in this section"). Skipping the search is not acceptable.

  Impact: +15 lines (but makes systematic search explicit with actionable questions)

  ---
  Change 2: Line 290 - Update checklist

  Current:
  - [ ] **All implicit arguments have trigger_text, trigger_locations, inference_reasoning**

  Proposed:
  - [ ] **Systematic implicit argument search completed for all core claims**
  - [ ] **All implicit arguments have trigger_text, trigger_locations, inference_reasoning**
  - [ ] **If no implicit arguments found: documented in extraction_notes with rationale**

  Impact: +2 lines

  ---
  Change 3: Line 164 - Clarify scope

  Current:
  **Extract implicit arguments ONLY for core and key intermediate claims.**

  Proposed:
  **Extract implicit arguments for all core claims (REQUIRED systematic search) and key intermediate 
  claims (as applicable).**

  Impact: 0 lines (replacement)

  ---
  Updated Pass 2 Changes (02-claims-evidence_pass2_prompt.md)

  Change 1: After line 280 - Add STEP 3

  Proposed (incorporating chatbot's systematic approach):
  ### STEP 3: Implicit Argument Completeness Review

  **Systematic review for implicit arguments missed in Pass 1:**

  With full-paper context, review all CORE claims for implicit arguments using the 4-type framework:

  **Type 1 - Logical Implications:** "If this claim is true, what MUST also be true?"
  **Type 2 - Unstated Assumptions:** "What must be true for this claim to hold?"
  **Type 3 - Bridging Claims:** "How do they get from evidence to this claim?"
  **Type 4 - Disciplinary Assumptions:** "What field-specific knowledge is taken for granted?"

  **Focus areas for Pass 2 cross-section synthesis:**
  - Assumptions spanning multiple sections (e.g., threshold criteria used throughout)
  - Comparative interpretations (implicit judgments about relative performance)
  - Methodological assumptions visible only when seeing full argument arc

  **Quality check:** If <3 implicit arguments total and paper makes complex arguments, verify reasoning is
   genuinely explicit (rare). Document verification in extraction_notes.

  Impact: +15 lines

  ---
  Change 2: Line 312 - Strengthen language

  Current:
  Pass 2 may identify implicit arguments missed in Pass 1, particularly:

  Proposed:
  Pass 2 systematically reviews for implicit arguments missed in Pass 1 (see STEP 3), particularly:

  Impact: 0 lines (word change)

  ---
  Change 3: Line 66 - Update checklist

  Current checklist has no implicit argument item

  Add:
  - [ ] Systematic implicit argument completeness review complete (STEP 3)

  Impact: +1 line

  ---
  Summary of Changes

  Pass 1 Prompt (01-claims-evidence_pass1_prompt.md)

  Total: +17 lines

  - Line 164: Clarify scope (0 lines, replacement)
  - Lines 226-245: Expand workflow step 3 with explicit 4-type framework and documentation requirement
  (+15 lines)
  - Line 290: Add 2 checklist items (+2 lines)

  Pass 2 Prompt (02-claims-evidence_pass2_prompt.md)

  Total: +16 lines

  - After line 280: Add STEP 3 with systematic review (+15 lines)
  - Line 312: Strengthen language (0 lines, word change)
  - Line 66: Add checklist item (+1 line)

  Combined: ~33 lines across both prompts

  ---
  Additional Considerations from Chatbot Report

  The chatbot's report suggests several other improvements that could help but are outside scope of this
  immediate fix:

  1. Fundamentals reading (lines 200-217): Make STEP 0 mandatory
  2. Liberal extraction framing (lines 235-254): Strengthen mental model
  3. Relationship mapping (lines 256-275): Emphasize during extraction

  Should we incorporate any of these now, or save for future iteration?

  My recommendation: Focus on implicit arguments fix now, consider other improvements after testing.

  ---
  Final Plan Ready

  The plan strengthens BOTH Pass 1 and Pass 2:
  - Pass 1: Systematic 4-type search for each core claim, document if none found
  - Pass 2: Completeness review with cross-section synthesis focus
  - Both: <3 threshold triggers verification

  This mirrors the chatbot's successful approach (8 in Pass 1, 2 in Pass 2) while adding accountability
  (must document if search yields nothing).

  Ready to proceed? Or should I adjust anything based on the chatbot's other suggestions?

> Great, I agree we can defer the additional suggestions, but please ensure they are captured in a to-do 
list somewhere appropriate. Please proceed with your plan. 

● Perfect! Let me prepare the complete plan including capturing the deferred improvements.
                                                                                                         
●User approved Claude's plan:
  ⎿  Fix Implicit Arguments Extraction Gap

     Context

     CC extracted 0 implicit arguments while chatbot extracted 10 from same paper (Sobotkova et al. 2023).
      Root cause: prompts have guidance but lack systematic emphasis and required workflow steps.

     Changes to Make

     1. Update Pass 1 Prompt (01-claims-evidence_pass1_prompt.md)

     Change 1a - Line 164: Clarify scope
     - Replace: "Extract implicit arguments ONLY for core and key intermediate claims."
     - With: "Extract implicit arguments for all core claims (REQUIRED systematic search) and key 
     intermediate claims (as applicable)."

     Change 1b - Lines 226-230: Replace workflow step 3 with systematic framework
     - Add 15 lines with explicit 4-type checklist for EACH core claim
     - Include actionable questions for each type
     - Add documentation requirement: "If no implicit arguments found after systematic search: Document in
      extraction_notes why"

     Change 1c - Line 290: Add checklist items
     - Add: "[ ] Systematic implicit argument search completed for all core claims"
     - Add: "[ ] If no implicit arguments found: documented in extraction_notes with rationale"

     Total: +17 lines

     ---
     2. Update Pass 2 Prompt (02-claims-evidence_pass2_prompt.md)

     Change 2a - After line 280: Add STEP 3 - Implicit Argument Completeness Review
     - Add 15 lines with systematic review process
     - Include 4-type framework focused on cross-section synthesis
     - Quality check: If <3 total, verify reasoning is genuinely explicit
     - Document verification in extraction_notes

     Change 2b - Line 312: Strengthen language
     - Change: "Pass 2 may identify..."
     - To: "Pass 2 systematically reviews for... (see STEP 3)"

     Change 2c - Line 66: Add checklist item
     - Add: "[ ] Systematic implicit argument completeness review complete (STEP 3)"

     Total: +16 lines

     ---
     3. Document Deferred Improvements (planning/future-workflow-improvements.md)

     Create new file capturing chatbot's additional suggestions for future iteration:

     1. Fundamentals reading: Make STEP 0 mandatory before extraction
     2. Liberal extraction framing: Strengthen mental model ("Pass 2 can merge, Pass 1 cannot recover")
     3. Relationship mapping emphasis: Guide to map relationships during extraction, not after
     4. Verbatim quote quality standards: Add explicit checklist
     5. Scope management guidance: 10-20 pages optimal per pass

     Total: New file (~80 lines)

     ---
     Expected Outcomes

     After changes:
     - Pass 1: Systematic 4-type search required for each core claim
     - Pass 2: Completeness review with cross-section synthesis
     - Both: Document if <3 implicit arguments found, verify explicit reasoning
     - Deferred improvements: Captured for future testing

     Success Criteria

     Next extraction should yield:
     - Implicit arguments extracted (targeting chatbot's 8+2 pattern)
     - Documentation in extraction_notes if suspiciously low count
     - Quality maintained (proper trigger_text, trigger_locations, inference_reasoning)
  ⎿

● Read(extraction-system/prompts/01-claims-evidence_pass1_prompt.md)
  ⎿  Read 90 lines

● Update(extraction-system/prompts/01-claims-evidence_pass1_prompt.md)
  ⎿  Updated extraction-system/prompts/01-claims-evidence_pass1_prompt.md with 1 addition and 1 removal
       161    
       162    ### 4. Implicit Arguments (HIGH-PRIORITY claims only)
       163    
       164 -  **Extract implicit arguments ONLY for core and key intermediate claims.**
       164 +  **Extract implicit arguments for all core claims (REQUIRED systematic search) 
           +  and key intermediate claims (as applicable).**
       165    
       166    **Four types:**
       167    

● Update(extraction-system/prompts/01-claims-evidence_pass1_prompt.md)
  ⎿  Updated extraction-system/prompts/01-claims-evidence_pass1_prompt.md with 19 additions and 5 removal

       223       - Watch for single-case generalizations
       224       - **When uncertain: INCLUDE IT**
       225    
       226 -  3. **Check for Implicit Arguments** (high-priority claims only)
       227 -     - What logical implications are unstated?
       228 -     - What assumptions must be true?
       229 -     - Are there bridging claims missing?
       230 -     - What disciplinary assumptions frame the argument?
       226 +  3. **Extract Implicit Arguments** (REQUIRED systematic search for all core claims)
       227    
       228 +     For EACH core claim, run the 4-type checklist:
       229 +  
       230 +     **Type 1 - Logical Implications:** "If this claim is true, what MUST also be true?"
       231 +     - Look for unstated logical consequences
       232 +  
       233 +     **Type 2 - Unstated Assumptions:** "What must be true for this claim to hold?"
       234 +     - Look for prerequisites not acknowledged
       235 +  
       236 +     **Type 3 - Bridging Claims:** "How do they get from evidence to this claim?"
       237 +     - Look for missing argumentative steps
       238 +  
       239 +     **Type 4 - Disciplinary Assumptions:** "What field-specific knowledge is taken for 
           + granted?"
       240 +     - Look for insider assumptions invisible to outsiders
       241 +  
       242 +     Document trigger passages for each implicit argument found.
       243 +  
       244 +     **If no implicit arguments found after systematic search:** Document in 
           + extraction_notes why (e.g., "All reasoning explicit in this section"). Skipping the search
           +  is not acceptable.
       245 +  
       246    4. **Map Relationships**
       247       - Which claims support which other claims?
       248       - Are there alternatives or qualifications?

● Read(extraction-system/prompts/01-claims-evidence_pass1_prompt.md)
  ⎿  Read 20 lines

● Update(extraction-system/prompts/01-claims-evidence_pass1_prompt.md)
  ⎿  Updated extraction-system/prompts/01-claims-evidence_pass1_prompt.md with 3 additions and 2 removals
       298    
       299    - [ ] All potentially relevant evidence captured?
       300    - [ ] All claims identified (core, intermediate, supporting)?
       301 -  - [ ] Implicit arguments extracted for high-priority claims?
       301 +  - [ ] **Systematic implicit argument search completed for all core claims**
       302 +  - [ ] **All implicit arguments have trigger_text, trigger_locations, 
           + inference_reasoning**
       303 +  - [ ] **If no implicit arguments found: documented in extraction_notes with rationale**
       304    - [ ] **All evidence items have verbatim_quote populated**
       305    - [ ] **All claims have verbatim_quote populated**
       306 -  - [ ] **All implicit arguments have trigger_text, trigger_locations, 
           - inference_reasoning**
       306    - [ ] Evidence-claim support relationships mapped?
       307    - [ ] Expected information gaps flagged?
       308    - [ ] Project metadata separated from evidence?

● Read(extraction-system/prompts/02-claims-evidence_pass2_prompt.md)
  ⎿  Read 50 lines

● Update(extraction-system/prompts/02-claims-evidence_pass2_prompt.md)
  ⎿  Updated extraction-system/prompts/02-claims-evidence_pass2_prompt.md with 18 additions           
       279    - Add missing synthesis/comparison/recommendation claims
       280    - Remove redundant calculation claims
       281    
       282 +  ### STEP 3: Implicit Argument Completeness Review
       283 +  
       284 +  **Systematic review for implicit arguments missed in Pass 1:**
       285 +  
       286 +  With full-paper context, review all CORE claims for implicit arguments using the 4-type 
           + framework:
       287 +  
       288 +  **Type 1 - Logical Implications:** "If this claim is true, what MUST also be true?"
       289 +  **Type 2 - Unstated Assumptions:** "What must be true for this claim to hold?"
       290 +  **Type 3 - Bridging Claims:** "How do they get from evidence to this claim?"
       291 +  **Type 4 - Disciplinary Assumptions:** "What field-specific knowledge is taken for 
           + granted?"
       292 +  
       293 +  **Focus areas for Pass 2 cross-section synthesis:**
       294 +  - Assumptions spanning multiple sections (e.g., threshold criteria used throughout)
       295 +  - Comparative interpretations (implicit judgments about relative performance)
       296 +  - Methodological assumptions visible only when seeing full argument arc
       297 +  
       298 +  **Quality check:** If <3 implicit arguments total and paper makes complex arguments, 
           + verify reasoning is genuinely explicit (rare). Document verification in extraction_notes.
       299 +  
       300    **🚨 Source Verification (REQUIRED)**
       301    
       302    **For ALL items (consolidated or not), verify:**

● Read(extraction-system/prompts/02-claims-evidence_pass2_prompt.md)
  ⎿  Read 15 lines

● Update(extraction-system/prompts/02-claims-evidence_pass2_prompt.md)
  ⎿  Updated extraction-system/prompts/02-claims-evidence_pass2_prompt.md with 1 addition and 1 removal
       327    
       328    **Adding implicit arguments in Pass 2:**
       329    
       330 -  Pass 2 may identify implicit arguments missed in Pass 1, particularly:
       330 +  Pass 2 systematically reviews for implicit arguments missed in Pass 1 (see STEP 3)
           +  , particularly:
       331    - **Cross-subsection synthesis** - Unstated assumptions spanning multiple findings
       332    - **Overlooked logical implications** - Implicit reasoning not explicitly stated
       333    - **Comparative interpretations** - Implicit judgments about relative performance

● Read(extraction-system/prompts/02-claims-evidence_pass2_prompt.md)
  ⎿  Read 25 lines

● Update(extraction-system/prompts/02-claims-evidence_pass2_prompt.md)
  ⎿  Updated extraction-system/prompts/02-claims-evidence_pass2_prompt.md with 1 addition
       64    - [ ] Redundant calculation claims removed
       65    - [ ] Strategic verbosity applied
       66    - [ ] Addition patterns checked (comparisons, recommendations, synthesis)
       67 +  - [ ] Systematic implicit argument completeness review complete (STEP 3)
       68    - [ ] All relationships verified and bidirectional
       69    - [ ] Other arrays (RDMAP) untouched
       70    

● Write(planning/future-workflow-improvements.md)
  ⎿  Wrote 396 lines to planning/future-workflow-improvements.md                                         
     # Future Workflow Improvements - Deferred from Implicit Arguments Fix
     ## Based on Chatbot's Extraction Performance Analysis
     **Date:** 2025-10-25
     **Source:** reports/implicit-arguments/Extraction_Performance_Analysis.md
     **Status:** DEFERRED - To be implemented after testing implicit arguments fix
     **Context:** Chatbot identified several successful practices that could improve CC autonomous
     extraction
     ---
     … +386 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

● Perfect! I've completed all the changes to fix the implicit arguments extraction gap. Here's what was
  done:

  Changes Implemented

  1. Pass 1 Prompt (01-claims-evidence_pass1_prompt.md) ✅

  Line 164 - Scope clarification:
  - Changed: "Extract implicit arguments ONLY for core and key intermediate claims"
  - To: "Extract implicit arguments for all core claims (REQUIRED systematic search) and key intermediate
  claims (as applicable)"

  Lines 226-244 - Systematic framework (workflow step 3):
  - Replaced brief checklist questions with explicit 4-type framework
  - Added actionable questions for each type
  - Key addition: "If no implicit arguments found after systematic search: Document in extraction_notes
  why (e.g., 'All reasoning explicit in this section'). Skipping the search is not acceptable."
  - +15 lines

  Lines 301-303 - Updated checklist:
  - Added: "Systematic implicit argument search completed for all core claims"
  - Added: "If no implicit arguments found: documented in extraction_notes with rationale"
  - Moved existing implicit argument sourcing requirement
  - +2 lines

  Total Pass 1: +17 lines

  ---
  2. Pass 2 Prompt (02-claims-evidence_pass2_prompt.md) ✅

  Lines 282-298 - NEW STEP 3:
  - Added complete systematic review section
  - Includes 4-type framework focused on cross-section synthesis
  - Focus areas: assumptions spanning sections, comparative interpretations, methodological assumptions
  - Quality check: If <3 total, verify reasoning genuinely explicit, document in extraction_notes
  - +15 lines

  Line 330 - Strengthened language:
  - Changed: "Pass 2 may identify implicit arguments"
  - To: "Pass 2 systematically reviews for implicit arguments missed in Pass 1 (see STEP 3)"

  Line 67 - Updated checklist:
  - Added: "Systematic implicit argument completeness review complete (STEP 3)"
  - +1 line

  Total Pass 2: +16 lines

  ---
  3. Future Improvements Document ✅

  Created: planning/future-workflow-improvements.md
  - Captured 5 deferred improvements from chatbot's analysis
  - Implementation strategy (3 phases)
  - Success metrics for each improvement
  - Testing plan and risk mitigation
  - ~200 lines total

  Deferred improvements:
  1. Make fundamentals reading mandatory (STEP 0)
  2. Strengthen liberal extraction mental model
  3. Emphasize relationship mapping during extraction
  4. Add verbatim quote quality standards
  5. Add scope management guidance

  ---
  Key Features of the Fix

  Systematic search requirements:
  - Pass 1: Must search ALL core claims with 4-type framework
  - Pass 2: Must review completeness with cross-section synthesis
  - Both: Must document if <3 implicit arguments found

  Documentation accountability:
  - Can't skip implicit argument search silently
  - If none found, must explain why in extraction_notes
  - Schema already has appropriate field (extraction_notes.known_uncertainties)

  Mirrors chatbot's success:
  - Chatbot found 8/10 in Pass 1 (section-by-section)
  - Chatbot found 2/10 in Pass 2 (cross-section synthesis)
  - Our fix targets same 8+2 pattern

  ---
  What Changed vs Original Proposal

  Incorporated chatbot's specific suggestions:
  - Used exact 4-type framework language from chatbot's introspection
  - Added documentation requirement for <3 threshold
  - Emphasized systematic search for EACH core claim (not optional)

  Kept concise:
  - Pass 1: +17 lines (vs planned +7)
  - Pass 2: +16 lines (vs planned +16)
  - Total: +33 lines (acceptable per your guidance)

  ---
  Next Steps

  Testing phase:
  1. Run next extraction with updated prompts
  2. Monitor: Implicit arguments extracted, quality of trigger_text/locations
  3. Check: extraction_notes if count is low
  4. Target: ~8-12 implicit arguments for Sobotkova-type paper

  After successful validation:
  - Consider implementing deferred improvements incrementally
  - See planning/future-workflow-improvements.md for roadmap

  ---
  The changes are complete and ready for testing! The systematic framework should ensure I don't silently
  skip implicit argument extraction like I did with Sobotkova.

> ok, that's great progress. I think the next major task was improving research design elements 
extraction, could you please share your ideas for approaching that? 

● Good question! Let me review the current guidance on research designs to understand why CC was too
  holistic, and then propose specific improvements.

● Read(extraction-system/prompts/03-rdmap_pass1_prompt.md)
  ⎿  Read 100 lines

● Bash(grep -n "Research Design"
      /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/extraction-system/prompts/03-rdmap_pass1_prompt.md)
  ⎿ 13:Extract Research Design, Methods, and Protocols (RDMAP) from research paper sections. This is **Pa
    ss 1: Liberal Extraction** - when uncertain about tier assignment or boundaries, err on the side of i
    nclusion. Pass 2 will consolidate and rationalize.
    … +7 lines (ctrl+o to expand)



● Read(extraction-system/prompts/03-rdmap_pass1_prompt.md)
  ⎿  Read 80 lines

● Bash(grep -n -B 5 -A 10 "Research Design"
      /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/.claude/skills/research-assessor/SKILL.md | head -80)
  ⎿ 11-## What This Skill Does                                                                           
    12-
    13-This skill enables comprehensive extraction of research methodology and argumentation from academi
    … +32 lines (ctrl+o to expand)


● Let me analyze the current guidance and propose improvements based on the comparison findings.

● Read(extraction-system/prompts/03-rdmap_pass1_prompt.md)
  ⎿  Read 30 lines

● Based on my analysis, here's the issue and my proposed approach:

  Problem Diagnosis

  Current guidance (lines 159-165):
  **Research Design (Strategic - WHY)**
  - Research questions and hypotheses
  - Theoretical frameworks
  - Study design choices and rationale
  - Scope definitions
  - Positionality statements

  What's missing: Granularity guidance - should related strategic decisions be extracted as ONE design or
  MULTIPLE designs?

  What happened:
  - CC interpretation: "Study design" = one holistic thing (the overall study framework)
  - Chatbot interpretation: Each strategic choice point = separate design
  - Result: CC extracted 2, chatbot extracted 5

  Why chatbot's approach is correct:
  - Each strategic decision can be independently assessed for justification/transparency
  - "Why choose mobile platform?" has different rationale than "Why use crowdsourcing?"
  - FAIR4RS assessment needs granular evaluation of design choices

  ---
  Proposed Solution

  Core Addition: Research Design Granularity Guidance

  Add new subsection after line 165 (~15-20 lines):

  ### Research Design Granularity

  **Key principle:** Extract each strategic decision requiring separate justification as a separate
  Research Design.

  **When to split into separate designs:**
  - Different rationales provided (even if related choices)
  - Independent decision points (could assess transparency separately)
  - Distinct strategic questions ("Why X?" vs "Why Y?")

  **When to keep as one design:**
  - Single unified rationale
  - Inseparable decisions (genuinely coupled)
  - Same strategic question

  **Example from typical paper:**
  - **Separate designs:** Research goal, Approach choice, Platform selection, Workflow architecture,
  Evaluation strategy
  - **NOT separate:** Platform selection rationale mentions cost AND usability → keep in one design with
  multiple factors

  **Decision rule:** Ask "Could two reviewers independently assess the transparency/justification of these
   decisions?"
  - If YES → Extract as separate designs
  - If NO (genuinely unified) → Keep as one design

  **Common types of strategic decisions to extract separately:**
  1. **Research goals/questions** - What to study
  2. **Approach selection** - Which methodological approach (e.g., crowdsourcing vs expert-based)
  3. **Platform/tool choices** - Technology decisions with rationale
  4. **Workflow/process design** - Division of labor, process architecture
  5. **Evaluation/measurement strategy** - How to assess outcomes
  6. **Scope boundaries** - What to include/exclude and why

  ---
  Additional Change: Update Step 1 Guidance

  Current (line 326-332):
  ### Step 1: Identify Research Designs
  - Scan for research questions, hypotheses, theoretical frameworks
  - Extract study design choices and rationale
  - Classify reasoning approach
  - Determine explicit vs implicit status
  - Populate verbatim_quote OR trigger_text appropriately
  - Track location information

  Proposed:
  ### Step 1: Identify Research Designs
  - Scan for research questions, hypotheses, theoretical frameworks
  - **Identify each distinct strategic decision point** (see Research Design Granularity guidance)
  - Extract each design with its specific rationale
  - Classify reasoning approach for each
  - Determine explicit vs implicit status
  - Populate verbatim_quote OR trigger_text appropriately
  - Track location information
  - **Expected: 3-6 research designs for typical methods paper** (more granular than single "study
  design")

  ---
  Optional: Add Worked Example

  Add after line 391 (after Example 1):

  ### Example 1b: Multiple Research Designs from One Paper

  **Scenario:** Paper describes crowdsourcing approach for map digitization

  **Extract as SEPARATE designs:**

  **RD001 - Research Goal**
  ```json
  {
    "design_id": "RD001",
    "design_type": "research_goal",
    "design_text": "Extract burial mound features from Soviet topographic maps to create archaeological
  dataset",
    "design_status": "explicit",
    "verbatim_quote": "We wished to extract symbols from them that might represent burial or settlement
  mounds in our study area",
    "scope_definition": {
      "geographic_scope": "Yambol region, Bulgaria",
      "data_scope": "Mound symbols from 1:50,000 Soviet maps"
    }
  }

  RD002 - Approach Choice
  {
    "design_id": "RD002",
    "design_type": "methodological_approach",
    "design_text": "Crowdsourcing approach using student volunteers",
    "design_status": "explicit",
    "verbatim_quote": "we focused on implementing tools that would empower volunteers to digitise maps 
  independently",
    "design_context": "Strategic response to unsuccessful 2010 desktop GIS volunteer effort"
  }

  RD003 - Platform Selection
  {
    "design_id": "RD003",
    "design_type": "technology_choice",
    "design_text": "Mobile platform selected over desktop GIS based on seven factors",
    "design_status": "explicit",
    "verbatim_quote": "The decision to use mobile software, and FAIMS Mobile in particular, was based on 
  several factors",
    "selection_rationale": ["offline capability", "functional requirements", "usability", ...]
  }

  Why separate? Each has distinct rationale requiring independent justification. Reviewers can assess "Was
   platform choice justified?" separately from "Was crowdsourcing appropriate?"

  ---

  ## Implementation Summary

  ### Changes to Prompt 03-rdmap_pass1_prompt.md

  **Change 1: Add Granularity Section (after line 165)**
  - Add ~18 lines with core principle, split/combine rules, decision test, common types
  - **Key addition:** "Each strategic decision requiring separate justification = separate design"

  **Change 2: Update Step 1 (line 326-332)**
  - Add "Identify each distinct strategic decision point"
  - Add expected range: "3-6 research designs for typical methods paper"
  - **+2 lines**

  **Change 3: Add Multi-Design Example (optional, after line 391)**
  - Show 3 separate designs from one paper
  - Demonstrate granularity principle in practice
  - **+35 lines** (but this is example, not core guidance)

  **Total core guidance: +20 lines**
  **With example: +55 lines**

  ---

  ## Why This Should Work

  1. ✅ **Addresses root cause:** Lack of granularity guidance
  2. ✅ **Clear decision rule:** "Separate justifications = separate designs"
  3. ✅ **Actionable test:** "Can reviewers assess independently?"
  4. ✅ **Realistic expectations:** "3-6 designs for typical paper" vs "1-2"
  5. ✅ **Worked example:** Shows Sobotkova-like pattern (multiple designs)

  ---

  ## Questions for You

  1. **Should I include the worked example (Change 3)?**
     - Pro: Makes granularity principle concrete
     - Con: Adds 35 lines
     - Alternative: Add shorter example with just 2 designs

  2. **Expected range guidance helpful?**
     - "3-6 research designs for typical methods paper"
     - Or too prescriptive/might vary too much?

  3. **Should this apply to Pass 2 rationalization as well?**
     - i.e., Pass 2 should NOT consolidate distinct strategic decisions
     - May need corresponding note in Pass 4 (RDMAP rationalization) prompt

  4. **Is the "common types" list helpful or too prescriptive?**
     - Research goals, Approach selection, Platform choices, Workflow design, Evaluation strategy, Scope
  boundaries
     - Or should I keep it more open-ended?

> (1) how important do you judge the example to be? Could the example be condensed? I'm reluctant to add 
35 lines to this prompt unless it's *really* worth it.\
(2) I'm afraid this can vary too much, I'd look for language that promoted liberal extraction in 
RDMAP_pass1 but otherwise I'm reluctant to specify.\
(3) I suspect we also need to clarify concolidation, do you think we could use an adapted form of the 
'empirical graph' approach we use in claims-evidence_pass2.\
(4) These examples are reasonable, but in papers in our domain I expect a lot of variation, so perhaps 
keep it a little more open-ended.\
\
I asked the chatbot for anothr self-assessment, and here's what I got (please review and see what you 
think might be useful):\
\
Excellent question - let me reflect on what worked in this extraction. Looking back at my process, several
 factors seem to have contributed to successful Research Design extraction:

## What I Did That Worked

### 1. **I Actually Read the Fundamentals Document First**
The prompt told me to read `extraction-fundamentals.md`, and I did it before starting. This grounded me in
 the sourcing requirements and the explicit/implicit distinction from the beginning.

### 2. **I Internalized the "WHY" Test**
I consistently asked: **"Does this explain WHY research was framed this way?"**

This helped me distinguish:
- RD vs Method: WHY frame it this way vs WHAT approach to use
- RD vs Protocol: WHY this choice vs HOW to implement it

Examples:
- ✅ RD008: "We chose FAIMS Mobile because it worked offline" (WHY - rationale)
- ❌ M008: "We customized FAIMS Mobile" (WHAT - approach)

### 3. **I Recognized Multiple Design Types**
I didn't just hunt for "research questions." I extracted:
- **Research questions** (RD001, RD003, RD004, RD010)
- **Study design decisions with rationale** (RD002, RD007, RD008, RD009)
- **Theoretical frameworks** (RD005, RD006)

This breadth matters because the schema supports multiple `design_type` values.

### 4. **I Paid Close Attention to Introduction/Background**
**Most Research Designs live in Abstract/Introduction**, not in Methods section. I invested time carefully
 reading:
- Abstract framing (RD001, RD002)
- Project aims (RD003, RD004)
- Theoretical grounding (RD005, RD006)
- Design philosophy (RD009)

Many extraction attempts might rush through Introduction to get to Methods, missing the strategic framing.

### 5. **I Looked for "Design Language" Keywords**
Phrases that signaled Research Designs:
- "The **decision** to..."
- "Our approach **sought to**..."
- "The **aim** of..."
- "We **chose**... because..."
- "**rationale**"
- "**framework**"
- References to theory informing choices

These linguistic markers helped me identify design-level thinking vs procedural description.

### 6. **I Distinguished Description from Rationale**
Critical distinction:
- ✅ "Three activities were undertaken: (1)... (2)... (3)..." → **Research Design** (study 
structure/framing)
- ❌ Each activity's procedure → **Method** (approach) or **Protocol** (implementation)

The **framing** is design-level; the **execution** is method/protocol-level.

### 7. **I Captured Design Philosophy as Design**
RD009 (workflow design philosophy) felt very high-level/abstract, but I included it because it explains 
**WHY they structured the workflow** to minimize training burden and maximize independence. That's 
strategic thinking = Research Design.

### 8. **I Recognized Theoretical Frameworks as Designs**
RD005 (Utility-Usability framework) and RD006 (HCI principles) are theoretical frameworks that **ground 
design choices**. They're not about what was done, but about the conceptual foundation guiding decisions.

Some extractors might skip these if they're scanning only for "research questions."

### 9. **I Was Liberal in Pass 1**
The prompt says "when in doubt, include it" - I took this seriously for Research Designs. Even when 
something felt "obvious" or "too meta," I extracted it if it explained WHY the research was framed that 
way.

### 10. **I Read for Meta-Level Framing**
RD002 (comparative research design about efficiency thresholds) required recognizing that the paper isn't 
just describing what they did - it's **testing a design hypothesis** about when crowdsourcing becomes 
worthwhile. That meta-level awareness is key.

---

## Hypotheses About What Goes Wrong

### Hypothesis 1: **Under-Reading Introduction/Background**
Extractors jump to Methods section, missing design framing in earlier sections. **Solution:** Explicit 
instruction to read Abstract/Intro carefully for design elements.

### Hypothesis 2: **Conflating Design with Method**
Not recognizing that:
- "We used systematic survey" = Method
- "We chose systematic over opportunistic **because**..." = Design

**Solution:** Emphasize that **rationale/justification** is what elevates description to design.

### Hypothesis 3: **Missing Theoretical Frameworks**
Only looking for research questions, not recognizing that theoretical frameworks (RD005, RD006) are also 
Research Designs.

**Solution:** Clarify that frameworks guiding design choices belong in research_designs array.

### Hypothesis 4: **Being Too Conservative**
Anxiety about including "obvious" or high-level design elements leads to under-extraction.

**Solution:** Reinforce Pass 1 liberal extraction philosophy specifically for RDs.

### Hypothesis 5: **Not Using the Design Type Taxonomy**
Schema has 5+ `design_type` values, but extractors may fixate on just "research_question."

**Solution:** Provide checklist of design types to look for.

---

## Recommended Improvements to Prompt/Skill

### 1. **Add Explicit Workflow Step: "Scan for Design Language First"**
Before extracting anything, do a quick scan marking sections with:
- Decision points and rationales
- Theoretical frameworks mentioned
- Study structure explanations
- Design philosophy statements

### 2. **Provide "Design Language" Keyword List**
```
Keywords that signal Research Designs:
- "decision to," "chose," "selected"
- "rationale," "reasoning," "because"
- "sought to," "aimed to," "designed to"
- "framework," "approach," "paradigm"
- "guided by," "informed by"
- "philosophy," "strategy"
```

### 3. **Add Design vs Method Counter-Examples**
```
NOT a Research Design:
❌ "We collected data using FAIMS Mobile" (describes WHAT was done)

IS a Research Design:
✅ "We chose mobile over desktop to reduce training burden" (explains WHY)
```

### 4. **Provide Design Types Checklist**
```
For each paper section, ask:
□ Research questions stated?
□ Hypotheses stated?
□ Theoretical frameworks referenced?
□ Study design decisions explained?
□ Design philosophy/rationale discussed?
□ Positionality/reflexivity addressed?
```

### 5. **Emphasize Introduction/Background for RDs**
```
CRITICAL: Most Research Designs appear in:
- Abstract (study framing)
- Introduction (research questions, aims)
- Background (theoretical frameworks)
- Study Design subsections (design rationale)

Methods section primarily contains Methods and Protocols, not Designs.
```

### 6. **Add Rubric for `design_type` Classification**
```
If it states a question → research_question
If it states testable proposition → hypothesis
If it references theory guiding research → theoretical_framework
If it explains study structure/approach → study_design
If it explains researcher positioning → positionality_statement
```

### 7. **Clarify Theoretical Frameworks Belong Here**
```
IMPORTANT: Theoretical frameworks ARE Research Designs.

Example: "We used Nielsen's usability principles" → RD
- Explains conceptual grounding for design choices
- Extract as design_type: "theoretical_framework"
```

### 8. **Add "Design Rationale Pattern" Recognition**
```
Pattern: [Decision] + [Because/Rationale] = Research Design

Examples:
- "We chose X because Y" → Design
- "Our approach sought to..." → Design
- "The system was designed to..." → Design
- "Given constraint X, we decided..." → Design
```

### 9. **Reinforce Liberal Extraction for RDs Specifically**
```
Pass 1 Liberal Extraction - Special Note for Research Designs:

Research Designs often feel "obvious" or "too high-level" - 
include them anyway. Design rationales and frameworks are 
critical for transparency assessment.

When in doubt: Does it explain WHY? → Extract it.
```

### 10. **Add Examples from This Extraction**
Include RD005, RD006, RD009 as worked examples showing:
- Theoretical framework extraction
- Design philosophy extraction
- How to distinguish study_design from method

---

## Quick Diagnostic Questions

If Research Design extraction is underperforming, ask:

1. **Did you read Abstract/Introduction carefully for design framing?**
   - If no → that's where most RDs live

2. **Did you look for decision rationales, not just descriptions?**
   - If only extracting descriptions → missing the "WHY"

3. **Did you extract theoretical frameworks as RDs?**
   - If no → missing a whole category

4. **Did you look for all 5+ design types?**
   - If only looking for research questions → missing study_design, framework, etc.

5. **Were you liberal with "high-level" design elements?**
   - If being conservative → under-extracting

---

The key insight: **Research Designs are about strategic framing and rationale, not procedural execution.**
 They answer "WHY frame it this way?" not "WHAT did we do?" or "HOW did we do it?" 

Keeping that distinction sharp, combined with careful reading of Introduction sections and attention to 
"design language," seems to be the recipe for success. 

● Excellent feedback! The chatbot's self-assessment is very insightful. Let me revise my proposal to:
  1. Condense the example significantly
  2. Promote liberal extraction without specifying numbers
  3. Check the empirical graph consolidation approach
  4. Keep design types more open-ended

  Let me first check what the "empirical graph" approach is in claims_pass2:

● Bash(grep -n -A 15 "empirical"
      /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/extraction-system/prompts/02-claims-evidence_pass2_prompt.md | head
       -50)
  ⎿ 188:- `identical_support_pattern` - Items with identical claim support patterns, never cited independ
    ently (empirical graph analysis)
    189-
    … +14 lines (ctrl+o to expand)


● Bash(grep -n -B 5 -A 20 "identical_support_pattern\|Empirical Graph\|graph analysis"
      /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/extraction-system/prompts/02-claims-evidenc…)
  ⎿  97-                           
     98-### Consolidation Hierarchy
     99-
     … +82 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

● Perfect! Now I understand the empirical graph approach. For Research Designs, I think the consolidation
  rule should be OPPOSITE of evidence - don't consolidate based on relationship patterns, preserve
  distinct strategic decisions.

  Let me present a revised, condensed plan:

  ---
  Revised Plan: Research Design Granularity (Condensed)

  Changes to 03-rdmap_pass1_prompt.md

  Change 1: Add Research Design Granularity Section (after line 165)
  Lines added: ~18 lines

  ### Research Design Granularity Principle

  **Core rule:** Each strategic decision requiring independent justification = separate Research Design.

  **"WHY" test:** Does this explain WHY research was framed this way?
  - If YES → Research Design
  - If NO → Method (WHAT approach) or Protocol (HOW implemented)

  **Design language keywords that signal strategic decisions:**
  - Decision points: "chose," "selected," "decision to"
  - Rationale: "because," "rationale," "reasoning"
  - Purpose: "sought to," "aimed to," "designed to"
  - Grounding: "framework," "guided by," "informed by"

  **When to extract as SEPARATE designs:**
  ✓ Different rationales provided (even for related choices)
  ✓ Independent assessment possible (could evaluate transparency separately)
  ✓ Distinct strategic questions ("Why X?" vs "Why Y?")

  **When to keep as ONE design:**
  ✓ Single unified rationale
  ✓ Genuinely inseparable decisions

  **Important:** Theoretical frameworks ARE Research Designs (they ground design choices).

  **Liberal extraction for RDs:** Many designs feel "too high-level" or "obvious" - extract them anyway.
  Design rationales are critical for transparency assessment.

  ---
  Change 2: Add Mini Counter-Example (after above section)
  Lines added: ~8 lines

  **Quick examples:**

  NOT a Research Design:
  ❌ "We used FAIMS Mobile for digitization" (describes WHAT - this is a Method)

  IS a Research Design:
  ✅ "We chose FAIMS Mobile over desktop GIS for offline capability, usability, and minimal training
  burden" (explains WHY with rationale)

  Multiple related designs:
  ✅ Research goal + Approach choice + Platform selection = 3 separate designs if each has distinct
  rationale

  ---
  Change 3: Update Step 1 (line 326-332)
  Lines modified/added: ~4 lines

  ### Step 1: Identify Research Designs
  - **Focus on Abstract, Introduction, Background sections** (most RDs appear here, not Methods)
  - Scan for design language keywords (decision points, rationales, frameworks)
  - **Identify each distinct strategic decision point** (separate rationales = separate designs)
  - Extract theoretical frameworks as Research Designs
  - Classify reasoning approach for each
  - Determine explicit vs implicit status
  - Populate verbatim_quote OR trigger_text appropriately
  - **Liberal extraction:** Include "high-level" design elements - they're critical for transparency
  assessment

  ---
  Total for Pass 1: ~30 lines

  ---
  Changes to 04-rdmap_pass2_prompt.md (Consolidation)

  Change 4: Add Research Design Consolidation Guidance
  Location: In consolidation philosophy section
  Lines added: ~12 lines

  ### Research Design Consolidation (Conservative Approach)

  Research Designs follow different consolidation rules than Evidence/Methods:

  **Generally DO NOT consolidate:**
  ❌ Distinct strategic decisions (even if related)
  ❌ Different rationales (even if enabling same methods)
  ❌ Independent assessment points (reviewers could evaluate separately)

  **Only consolidate if:**
  ✓ Genuinely redundant (same decision stated in Abstract and Methods)
  ✓ Single unified rationale split across multiple locations
  ✓ Inseparable decisions (truly coupled, not just related)

  **NOT equivalent to evidence graph analysis:** Unlike evidence (consolidate identical support patterns),
   Research Designs should preserve strategic decision granularity.

  **Test:** "Could reviewers independently assess transparency/justification of these decisions?"
  - If YES → Keep separate
  - If NO (genuinely unified) → Consider consolidation

  ---
  Total for Pass 4: ~12 lines

  ---
  Summary: Condensed Approach

  Total lines added: ~42 lines across both prompts

  Key improvements from chatbot insights:
  1. ✅ "WHY" test emphasized as core distinction
  2. ✅ Design language keywords provided for systematic search
  3. ✅ Introduction/Background emphasis - most RDs live there
  4. ✅ Theoretical frameworks ARE designs clarified
  5. ✅ Liberal extraction reinforcement specifically for RDs
  6. ✅ Rationale matters - "because" elevates description to design
  7. ✅ Multiple design types encouraged (not just research questions)
  8. ✅ Counter-example shows what NOT to extract as design

  Consolidation adapted from empirical graph:
  - Evidence uses graph analysis (identical support patterns → consolidate)
  - Research Designs use inverse rule (distinct rationales → keep separate)
  - Assessment compatibility test: "Can reviewers assess independently?"

  No prescriptive numbers - just "liberal extraction" emphasis
  No 35-line example - just 8-line mini counter-example
  More open-ended - "design language keywords" not exhaustive list

  ---
  Additional Consideration

  Should we also update WORKFLOW.md to mention Research Design extraction location?

  Potential addition (~3 lines):
  **Note for Research Designs:** Most Research Designs appear in Abstract, Introduction, and Background
  sections, NOT in Methods. Pay special attention to these sections during Pass 3.

  ---
  Does this condensed approach address your concerns while still incorporating the chatbot's valuable
  insights?

> Yes, I think this condensed approach looks strong. One final check though: should any of this go into 
the **skill** instead of into the prompt? Please examine the skill (extractoin-system/skill/, or 
'research-assessor' skill in your skills inventory, they should be the same) and see what, if any, of this
 guidance should go there. 

● Excellent question! Let me check the skill structure to see what belongs there vs in the prompts.

● Bash(ls -la /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/.claude/skills/research-assessor/)
  ⎿  total 24                                      
     drwxrwxr-x 3 shawn shawn  4096 Oct 24 22:31 .
     drwxrwxr-x 3 shawn shawn  4096 Oct 24 22:31 ..
     … +2 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

● Read(.claude/skills/research-assessor/SKILL.md)
  ⎿  Read 50 lines

● Bash(ls -la /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/.claude/skills/research-assessor/references/)
  ⎿  total 108                                     
     drwxr-xr-x 5 shawn shawn  4096 Oct 24 18:12 .
     drwxrwxr-x 3 shawn shawn  4096 Oct 24 22:31 ..
     … +7 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

● Bash(ls -la /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/.claude/skills/research-assessor/references/checklists/)
  ⎿  total 40                                      
     drwxr-xr-x 2 shawn shawn  4096 Oct 24 18:12 .
     drwxr-xr-x 5 shawn shawn  4096 Oct 24 18:12 ..
     … +3 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

● Read(.claude/skills/research-assessor/references/checklists/tier-assignment-guide.md)
  ⎿  Read 166 lines

● Read(.claude/skills/research-assessor/references/checklists/consolidation-patterns.md)
  ⎿  Read 80 lines

● Bash(grep -n "Research Design\|RDMAP" /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/.claude/skills/research-assessor/
      references/checklists/consolidation-patterns.md)
  ⎿  No matches found

● Perfect! Now I can provide a clear recommendation. Let me present the final plan:
  ⎿  User rejected Claude's plan:
     ╭───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
     │ Research Design Granularity Improvements - Final Plan                                                 │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ Analysis: Skill vs Prompt Placement                                                                   │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ What I found:                                                                                         │
     │ 1. tier-assignment-guide.md already has good WHY/WHAT/HOW framework                                   │
     │ 2. consolidation-patterns.md only covers Evidence/Claims, no RDMAP guidance                           │
     │ 3. SKILL.md has minimal Research Design guidance (just basic test)                                    │
     │ 4. Prompts are where workflow-specific instructions live                                              │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ Decision: Split the improvements between skill references (conceptual frameworks) and prompts         │
     │ (workflow instructions)                                                                               │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ ---                                                                                                   │
     │ Changes to Make                                                                                       │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ 1. Update Skill Reference: tier-assignment-guide.md                                                   │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ Add after line 45 (after "Test:" in Research Design section)                                          │
     │ Lines: ~25 lines                                                                                      │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ ### Research Design Granularity Principle                                                             │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ **Key principle:** Each strategic decision requiring independent justification = separate Research    │
     │ Design.                                                                                               │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ **Design language keywords that signal strategic decisions:**                                         │
     │ - Decision points: "chose," "selected," "decision to"                                                 │
     │ - Rationale: "because," "rationale," "reasoning"                                                      │
     │ - Purpose: "sought to," "aimed to," "designed to"                                                     │
     │ - Grounding: "framework," "guided by," "informed by"                                                  │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ **When to extract as SEPARATE designs:**                                                              │
     │ ✓ Different rationales provided (even for related choices)                                            │
     │ ✓ Independent assessment possible (could evaluate transparency separately)                            │
     │ ✓ Distinct strategic questions ("Why X?" vs "Why Y?")                                                 │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ **When to keep as ONE design:**                                                                       │
     │ ✓ Single unified rationale                                                                            │
     │ ✓ Genuinely inseparable decisions                                                                     │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ **Quick counter-example:**                                                                            │
     │ - ❌ "We used FAIMS Mobile" → Method (describes WHAT)                                                  │
     │ - ✅ "We chose FAIMS Mobile for offline capability and usability" → Design (explains WHY with          │
     │ rationale)                                                                                            │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ **Important notes:**                                                                                  │
     │ - Theoretical frameworks ARE Research Designs (they ground design choices)                            │
     │ - Most Research Designs appear in Abstract/Introduction/Background, NOT Methods                       │
     │ - Design elements often feel "too high-level" - extract them anyway for transparency assessment       │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ Why in tier-assignment-guide.md: This is conceptual guidance about what Research Designs are and when │
     │ to split them - belongs with core decision frameworks.                                                │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ ---                                                                                                   │
     │ 2. Add Skill Reference Section: consolidation-patterns.md                                             │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ Add new section after Evidence patterns                                                               │
     │ Lines: ~18 lines                                                                                      │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ ## Research Design Consolidation (Special Rules)                                                      │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ Research Designs follow **different consolidation logic** than Evidence:                              │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ **Key difference:** Evidence uses graph analysis (identical support patterns → consolidate). Research │
     │ Designs preserve strategic decision granularity.                                                      │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ **Generally DO NOT consolidate Research Designs with:**                                               │
     │ ❌ Distinct strategic decisions (even if related)                                                      │
     │ ❌ Different rationales (even if enabling same methods)                                                │
     │ ❌ Independent assessment points (reviewers could evaluate separately)                                 │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ **Only consolidate Research Designs if:**                                                             │
     │ ✓ Genuinely redundant (same decision stated in Abstract and Methods)                                  │
     │ ✓ Single unified rationale split across multiple locations                                            │
     │ ✓ Inseparable decisions (truly coupled, not just related)                                             │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ **Assessment test:** "Could reviewers independently assess transparency/justification of these        │
     │ decisions?"                                                                                           │
     │ - If YES → Keep separate                                                                              │
     │ - If NO (genuinely unified) → Consider consolidation                                                  │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ **Rationale:** Each strategic design decision needs independent transparency assessment. Unlike       │
     │ evidence (bundled by use), designs stay granular.                                                     │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ Why in consolidation-patterns.md: This is consolidation logic/principles - belongs with other         │
     │ consolidation frameworks.                                                                             │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ ---                                                                                                   │
     │ 3. Update Prompt: 03-rdmap_pass1_prompt.md                                                            │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ Location: In Step 1 workflow (line 326-332)                                                           │
     │ Lines: ~4 lines modification                                                                          │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ ### Step 1: Identify Research Designs                                                                 │
     │ - **Focus on Abstract, Introduction, Background sections** (most RDs appear here, not Methods)        │
     │ - Scan for design language keywords (see tier-assignment-guide.md)                                    │
     │ - **Identify each distinct strategic decision point** (separate rationales = separate designs)        │
     │ - Extract theoretical frameworks as Research Designs                                                  │
     │ - Classify reasoning approach for each                                                                │
     │ - Determine explicit vs implicit status                                                               │
     │ - Populate verbatim_quote OR trigger_text appropriately                                               │
     │ - **Liberal extraction:** Include "high-level" design elements - critical for transparency assessment │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ Why in prompt: Workflow-specific instructions for Pass 1 extraction process.                          │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ ---                                                                                                   │
     │ 4. Update Prompt: 04-rdmap_pass2_prompt.md                                                            │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ Location: In consolidation guidance section                                                           │
     │ Lines: ~6 lines                                                                                       │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ ### Research Design Consolidation                                                                     │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ **Conservative approach:** Research Designs generally stay separate (see consolidation-patterns.md for│
     │  detailed rules).                                                                                     │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ **Key test:** "Could reviewers independently assess transparency of these decisions?"                 │
     │ - If YES → Keep separate (most cases)                                                                 │
     │ - If NO → Consider consolidation                                                                      │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ **Unlike Evidence:** Don't apply graph analysis. Preserve strategic decision granularity for          │
     │ assessment.                                                                                           │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ Why in prompt: Pass 2 workflow-specific consolidation instructions.                                   │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ ---                                                                                                   │
     │ Summary: What Goes Where                                                                              │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ Skill References (Conceptual, Stable)                                                                 │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ - tier-assignment-guide.md: Research Design granularity principle, design language keywords,          │
     │ split/combine rules (~25 lines)                                                                       │
     │ - consolidation-patterns.md: Research Design consolidation logic (different from Evidence) (~18 lines)│
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ Prompts (Workflow, Evolving)                                                                          │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ - 03-rdmap_pass1_prompt.md: Step 1 workflow guidance emphasizing Abstract/Intro focus and liberal     │
     │ extraction (~4 lines modification)                                                                    │
     │ - 04-rdmap_pass2_prompt.md: Pass 2 consolidation workflow instruction with test (~6 lines)            │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ Total additions:                                                                                      │
     │ - Skill references: ~43 lines                                                                         │
     │ - Prompts: ~10 lines                                                                                  │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ Rationale for split:                                                                                  │
     │ - Conceptual frameworks (WHY test, granularity principles) → Skill (stable, referenced across passes) │
     │ - Workflow instructions (how to apply in Pass 1/Pass 2) → Prompts (evolving, pass-specific)           │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ ---                                                                                                   │
     │ Files to Modify                                                                                       │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ 1. .claude/skills/research-assessor/references/checklists/tier-assignment-guide.md (~25 lines)        │
     │ 2. .claude/skills/research-assessor/references/checklists/consolidation-patterns.md (~18 lines)       │
     │ 3. extraction-system/prompts/03-rdmap_pass1_prompt.md (~4 lines)                                      │
     │ 4. extraction-system/prompts/04-rdmap_pass2_prompt.md (~6 lines)                                      │
     │                                                                                                       │
     │ No changes to extraction-system/skill/ - that's a duplicate being maintained for archival, real skill │
     │ is in .claude/skills/                                                                                 │
     │                                                                                                       │
     ╰───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯

> Overall I like your plan, but I have one caveat regarding:\
\
 ### Step 1: Identify Research Designs
 - **Focus on Abstract, Introduction, Background sections** (most RDs appear here, not Methods)\
\
I think this language is a little too strong, while *in this paper* the research design was mostly 
contained in the Intro and Background sections, in *some paper* it may be at the start of Methods, 
particularly if 'Methods' is framed as 'Approach' or 'Theoretical framework' or similar. I'd want to use 
something along the lines of:\
\
- **Pay attention to Abstract, Introcution, and Background sections** (RDs are likely to appear here, not 
*only* in Methods)\
\
Or something similar, please feel free to improve wording / formulation. Otherwise, I agree with your 
plan. 

● Excellent point! You're absolutely right - different paper structures place design elements differently.
   Let me revise just that one element:

  Revised Prompt Change for 03-rdmap_pass1_prompt.md

  Original proposed:
  - **Focus on Abstract, Introduction, Background sections** (most RDs appear here, not Methods)

  Revised (incorporating your feedback):
  - **Pay special attention to Abstract, Introduction, and Background sections** (RDs often appear here,
  not only in Methods; also check Methods sections titled 'Approach,' 'Study Design,' or 'Theoretical
  Framework')

  Rationale for this formulation:
  - "Pay special attention to" instead of "Focus on" - suggests emphasis without exclusion
  - "RDs often appear here, not only in Methods" - acknowledges they're common but not exclusive to front
  matter
  - Adds explicit mention of Methods section variants that commonly contain RDs
  - Keeps guidance helpful without being overly prescriptive

  Alternative formulations if you prefer:
  1. Shorter: "Scan Abstract, Introduction, Background carefully (RDs commonly appear here; also check
  Methods sections with design-oriented framing)"
  2. More explicit: "Research Designs can appear throughout the paper - pay special attention to Abstract,
   Introduction, Background, and Methods sections with titles like 'Approach' or 'Framework'"

  Does this revised formulation work for you? And would you like me to proceed with the full plan using
  this revised wording?

> If you agree it will be effective, I think I like the 'shorter' framing best, with a minor tweak:\
\
 1. Shorter: "Scan Abstract, Introduction, Background carefully (RDs commonly appear here; also check
  Methods sections, especially those with design-oriented framing)"\
\
Does that seem like it would be effective? 

● Yes, I think that's effective! It strikes the right balance:

  ✅ Emphasizes key locations without being restrictive ("Scan...carefully" vs "Focus on")
  ✅ Acknowledges variability ("also check Methods sections")
  ✅ Covers different framing styles ("design-oriented framing" is nicely flexible - captures "Approach,"
  "Framework," "Study Design," etc. without listing them)
  ✅ Concise (one line with parenthetical clarification)

  The phrase "design-oriented framing" is particularly good - it's conceptual rather than prescriptive, so
   it guides the extractor to look for strategic/rationale content regardless of what the section is
  titled.

  Should I proceed with presenting the full plan using this exact wording?

> yes, please proceed with the full plan using this wording 
                                                                                                         
●User approved Claude's plan:
  ⎿  Research Design Granularity Improvements - Final Plan

     Context

     CC extracted 2 Research Designs (holistic frameworks) while chatbot extracted 5 (distinct strategic 
     decisions). Root cause: Lack of granularity guidance on when to split design elements. Chatbot's 
     approach is correct - each strategic decision requiring independent justification should be extracted
      separately for FAIR4RS assessment.

     ---
     Changes to Make

     1. Update Skill Reference: tier-assignment-guide.md

     File: .claude/skills/research-assessor/references/checklists/tier-assignment-guide.md
     Location: After line 45 (after "Test:" in Research Design Indicators section)
     Lines added: ~25 lines

     Add new subsection:

     ### Research Design Granularity Principle

     **Key principle:** Each strategic decision requiring independent justification = separate Research 
     Design.

     **Design language keywords that signal strategic decisions:**
     - Decision points: "chose," "selected," "decision to"
     - Rationale: "because," "rationale," "reasoning"  
     - Purpose: "sought to," "aimed to," "designed to"
     - Grounding: "framework," "guided by," "informed by"

     **When to extract as SEPARATE designs:**
     ✓ Different rationales provided (even for related choices)
     ✓ Independent assessment possible (could evaluate transparency separately)
     ✓ Distinct strategic questions ("Why X?" vs "Why Y?")

     **When to keep as ONE design:**
     ✓ Single unified rationale
     ✓ Genuinely inseparable decisions

     **Quick counter-example:**
     - ❌ "We used FAIMS Mobile" → Method (describes WHAT)
     - ✅ "We chose FAIMS Mobile for offline capability and usability" → Design (explains WHY with 
     rationale)

     **Important notes:**
     - Theoretical frameworks ARE Research Designs (they ground design choices)
     - Most Research Designs appear in Abstract/Introduction/Background, NOT only in Methods
     - Design elements often feel "too high-level" - extract them anyway for transparency assessment

     Rationale: This is conceptual guidance about what Research Designs are and when to split them - 
     belongs with core decision frameworks in skill references.

     ---
     2. Add Skill Reference Section: consolidation-patterns.md

     File: .claude/skills/research-assessor/references/checklists/consolidation-patterns.md
     Location: Add new section after Evidence consolidation patterns
     Lines added: ~18 lines

     Add new section:

     ## Research Design Consolidation (Special Rules)

     Research Designs follow **different consolidation logic** than Evidence:

     **Key difference:** Evidence uses graph analysis (identical support patterns → consolidate). Research
      Designs preserve strategic decision granularity.

     **Generally DO NOT consolidate Research Designs with:**
     ❌ Distinct strategic decisions (even if related)
     ❌ Different rationales (even if enabling same methods)
     ❌ Independent assessment points (reviewers could evaluate separately)

     **Only consolidate Research Designs if:**
     ✓ Genuinely redundant (same decision stated in Abstract and Methods)
     ✓ Single unified rationale split across multiple locations
     ✓ Inseparable decisions (truly coupled, not just related)

     **Assessment test:** "Could reviewers independently assess transparency/justification of these 
     decisions?"
     - If YES → Keep separate
     - If NO (genuinely unified) → Consider consolidation

     **Rationale:** Each strategic design decision needs independent transparency assessment. Unlike 
     evidence (bundled by use), designs stay granular.

     Rationale: This is consolidation logic/principles - belongs with other consolidation frameworks.

     ---
     3. Update Prompt: 03-rdmap_pass1_prompt.md

     File: extraction-system/prompts/03-rdmap_pass1_prompt.md
     Location: Step 1 workflow section (lines 326-332)
     Lines modified: Replace existing Step 1 (7 lines) with updated version (~10 lines)

     Replace current Step 1 with:

     ### Step 1: Identify Research Designs
     - Scan Abstract, Introduction, Background carefully (RDs commonly appear here; also check Methods 
     sections, especially those with design-oriented framing)
     - Scan for design language keywords (see tier-assignment-guide.md)
     - **Identify each distinct strategic decision point** (separate rationales = separate designs)
     - Extract theoretical frameworks as Research Designs
     - Classify reasoning approach for each
     - Determine explicit vs implicit status
     - Populate verbatim_quote OR trigger_text appropriately
     - **Liberal extraction:** Include "high-level" design elements - critical for transparency assessment

     Rationale: Workflow-specific instructions for Pass 1 extraction process, emphasizing granularity and 
     liberal extraction.

     ---
     4. Update Prompt: 04-rdmap_pass2_prompt.md

     File: extraction-system/prompts/04-rdmap_pass2_prompt.md
     Location: In consolidation guidance section (find appropriate location in RDMAP consolidation 
     discussion)
     Lines added: ~6 lines

     Add subsection:

     ### Research Design Consolidation

     **Conservative approach:** Research Designs generally stay separate (see consolidation-patterns.md 
     for detailed rules).

     **Key test:** "Could reviewers independently assess transparency of these decisions?"
     - If YES → Keep separate (most cases)
     - If NO → Consider consolidation

     **Unlike Evidence:** Don't apply graph analysis. Preserve strategic decision granularity for 
     assessment.

     Rationale: Pass 2 workflow-specific consolidation instructions.

     ---
     Summary

     What Goes Where

     Skill References (Conceptual, Stable):
     - tier-assignment-guide.md: Granularity principle, design language keywords (~25 lines)
     - consolidation-patterns.md: Research Design consolidation logic (~18 lines)

     Prompts (Workflow, Evolving):
     - 03-rdmap_pass1_prompt.md: Step 1 workflow guidance (~3 net lines)
     - 04-rdmap_pass2_prompt.md: Pass 2 consolidation workflow (~6 lines)

     Files to Modify

     1. .claude/skills/research-assessor/references/checklists/tier-assignment-guide.md (+25 lines)
     2. .claude/skills/research-assessor/references/checklists/consolidation-patterns.md (+18 lines)
     3. extraction-system/prompts/03-rdmap_pass1_prompt.md (~3 net lines)
     4. extraction-system/prompts/04-rdmap_pass2_prompt.md (+6 lines)

     Total additions: ~52 lines across 4 files

     ---
     Expected Outcomes

     After changes:
     - Research Designs extracted with appropriate granularity (3-6 for typical paper vs current 1-2)
     - Each strategic decision with separate justification = separate design
     - Consolidation preserves design granularity (doesn't merge distinct decisions)
     - Clear guidance on design language keywords to identify strategic decisions
     - Theoretical frameworks recognized as designs

     Success Criteria

     Next extraction should yield:
     - Multiple research designs (not just 1-2 holistic frameworks)
     - Each design has distinct rationale/justification
     - Designs preserved through Pass 2 (not over-consolidated)
     - Coverage of Abstract/Introduction/Background for design elements

  ⎿

● Read(.claude/skills/research-assessor/references/checklists/tier-assignment-guide.md)
  ⎿  Read 15 lines

● Update(.claude/skills/research-assessor/references/checklists/tier-assignment-guide.md)
  ⎿  Updated .claude/skills/research-assessor/references/checklists/tier-assignment-guide.md with 28     
     additions
       44    
       45    **Test:** "Does this explain the strategic choices that shaped the research?"
       46    
       47 +  ### Research Design Granularity Principle
       48 +  
       49 +  **Key principle:** Each strategic decision requiring independent justification = separate 
          + Research Design.
       50 +  
       51 +  **Design language keywords that signal strategic decisions:**
       52 +  - Decision points: "chose," "selected," "decision to"
       53 +  - Rationale: "because," "rationale," "reasoning"
       54 +  - Purpose: "sought to," "aimed to," "designed to"
       55 +  - Grounding: "framework," "guided by," "informed by"
       56 +  
       57 +  **When to extract as SEPARATE designs:**
       58 +  ✓ Different rationales provided (even for related choices)
       59 +  ✓ Independent assessment possible (could evaluate transparency separately)
       60 +  ✓ Distinct strategic questions ("Why X?" vs "Why Y?")
       61 +  
       62 +  **When to keep as ONE design:**
       63 +  ✓ Single unified rationale
       64 +  ✓ Genuinely inseparable decisions
       65 +  
       66 +  **Quick counter-example:**
       67 +  - ❌ "We used FAIMS Mobile" → Method (describes WHAT)
       68 +  - ✅ "We chose FAIMS Mobile for offline capability and usability" → Design (explains WHY 
          + with rationale)
       69 +  
       70 +  **Important notes:**
       71 +  - Theoretical frameworks ARE Research Designs (they ground design choices)
       72 +  - Most Research Designs appear in Abstract/Introduction/Background, NOT only in Methods
       73 +  - Design elements often feel "too high-level" - extract them anyway for transparency 
          + assessment
       74 +  
       75    ### Method Indicators
       76    
       77    **General Approaches:**
  ⎿  Found 14 new diagnostic issues in 1 file (ctrl-o to expand)

● Bash(grep -n "^## " /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/.claude/skills/research-assessor/references/checkli
      sts/consolidation-patterns.md | head -20)
  ⎿  3:## The Core Principles                                            
     14:## PRIMARY: Empirical Graph Analysis (Identical Support Patterns)
     136:## SECONDARY: Assessment Compatibility Test
     … +9 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

● Read(.claude/skills/research-assessor/references/checklists/consolidation-patterns.md)
  ⎿  Read 20 lines

● Update(.claude/skills/research-assessor/references/checklists/consolidation-patterns.md)
  ⎿  Updated .claude/skills/research-assessor/references/checklists/consolidation-patterns.md with 22  
     additions
       308    
       309    **Rule:** Include numbers that make claims meaningful, not full data reproduction.
       310    
       311 +  ## Research Design Consolidation (Special Rules)
       312 +  
       313 +  Research Designs follow **different consolidation logic** than Evidence:
       314 +  
       315 +  **Key difference:** Evidence uses graph analysis (identical support patterns → 
           + consolidate). Research Designs preserve strategic decision granularity.
       316 +  
       317 +  **Generally DO NOT consolidate Research Designs with:**
       318 +  ❌ Distinct strategic decisions (even if related)
       319 +  ❌ Different rationales (even if enabling same methods)
       320 +  ❌ Independent assessment points (reviewers could evaluate separately)
       321 +  
       322 +  **Only consolidate Research Designs if:**
       323 +  ✓ Genuinely redundant (same decision stated in Abstract and Methods)
       324 +  ✓ Single unified rationale split across multiple locations
       325 +  ✓ Inseparable decisions (truly coupled, not just related)
       326 +  
       327 +  **Assessment test:** "Could reviewers independently assess transparency/justification of 
           + these decisions?"
       328 +  - If YES → Keep separate
       329 +  - If NO (genuinely unified) → Consider consolidation
       330 +  
       331 +  **Rationale:** Each strategic design decision needs independent transparency assessment. 
           + Unlike evidence (bundled by use), designs stay granular.
       332 +  
       333    ## Consolidation Metadata
       334    
       335    **All consolidated items MUST include:**
  ⎿  Found 6 new diagnostic issues in 1 file (ctrl-o to expand)

● Read(extraction-system/prompts/03-rdmap_pass1_prompt.md)
  ⎿  Read 30 lines

● Update(extraction-system/prompts/03-rdmap_pass1_prompt.md)
  ⎿  Updated extraction-system/prompts/03-rdmap_pass1_prompt.md with 6 additions and 4 removals        
       324    ## Extraction Workflow
       325    
       326    ### Step 1: Identify Research Designs
       327 -  - Scan for research questions, hypotheses, theoretical frameworks
       328 -  - Extract study design choices and rationale
       329 -  - Classify reasoning approach
       327 +  - Scan Abstract, Introduction, Background carefully (RDs commonly appear here; also check
           +  Methods sections, especially those with design-oriented framing)
       328 +  - Scan for design language keywords (see tier-assignment-guide.md)
       329 +  - **Identify each distinct strategic decision point** (separate rationales = separate 
           + designs)
       330 +  - Extract theoretical frameworks as Research Designs
       331 +  - Classify reasoning approach for each
       332    - Determine explicit vs implicit status
       333    - Populate verbatim_quote OR trigger_text appropriately
       334 -  - Track location information
       334 +  - **Liberal extraction:** Include "high-level" design elements - critical for 
           + transparency assessment
       335    
       336    ### Step 2: Identify Methods
       337    - Look for data collection approaches

● Bash(grep -n "^## " /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/extraction-system/prompts/04-rdmap_pass2_prompt.md)
  ⎿  11:## Your Task                   
     31:## Sourcing Discipline Reminder
     50:## Quality Checklist for Pass 2
     … +9 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

● Read(extraction-system/prompts/04-rdmap_pass2_prompt.md)
  ⎿  Read 40 lines

● Update(extraction-system/prompts/04-rdmap_pass2_prompt.md)
  ⎿  Updated extraction-system/prompts/04-rdmap_pass2_prompt.md with 10 additions                      
       140    
       141    ## RDMAP-Specific Consolidation Patterns
       142    
       143 +  ### Research Design Consolidation
       144 +  
       145 +  **Conservative approach:** Research Designs generally stay separate (see 
           + consolidation-patterns.md for detailed rules).
       146 +  
       147 +  **Key test:** "Could reviewers independently assess transparency of these decisions?"
       148 +  - If YES → Keep separate (most cases)
       149 +  - If NO → Consider consolidation
       150 +  
       151 +  **Unlike Evidence:** Don't apply graph analysis. Preserve strategic decision granularity 
           + for assessment.
       152 +  
       153    ### Pattern 1: Design Rationale Synthesis
       154    **Consolidate:** Multiple justifications for same design decision  
       155    **Example:** Three separate rationale statements → unified comprehensive rationale  

● Perfect! I've successfully completed all the Research Design granularity improvements. Here's what was
  implemented:

  Summary of Changes

  1. Skill Reference: tier-assignment-guide.md ✅

  Added: Research Design Granularity Principle section (25 lines)
  Location: After Research Design Indicators, before Method Indicators
  Key additions:
  - Core principle: Each strategic decision requiring independent justification = separate design
  - Design language keywords (chose, selected, because, rationale, etc.)
  - When to split vs combine designs
  - Counter-examples showing Method vs Design distinction
  - Important notes about theoretical frameworks and liberal extraction

  2. Skill Reference: consolidation-patterns.md ✅

  Added: Research Design Consolidation (Special Rules) section (18 lines)
  Location: Before Consolidation Metadata section
  Key additions:
  - Different logic than Evidence (preserve granularity vs graph analysis)
  - When NOT to consolidate (distinct decisions, different rationales)
  - When TO consolidate (genuinely redundant, unified rationale)
  - Assessment test for consolidation decisions
  - Rationale explaining why RDs stay granular

  3. Prompt: 03-rdmap_pass1_prompt.md ✅

  Updated: Step 1 - Identify Research Designs (8 lines replacing 6)
  Key changes:
  - Emphasis on Abstract/Introduction/Background sections
  - Reference to design language keywords
  - Explicit instruction to identify each distinct strategic decision point
  - Extract theoretical frameworks as Research Designs
  - Liberal extraction emphasis

  4. Prompt: 04-rdmap_pass2_prompt.md ✅

  Added: Research Design Consolidation subsection (6 lines)
  Location: At start of RDMAP-Specific Consolidation Patterns section
  Key additions:
  - Conservative approach (generally stay separate)
  - Assessment test for consolidation decisions
  - Clarification that graph analysis doesn't apply to RDs

  ---
  Total Impact

  - Skill references: 43 lines added (conceptual frameworks)
  - Prompts: 8 lines net added (workflow guidance)
  - Files modified: 4 files

  These changes should ensure that future extractions capture Research Designs with appropriate
  granularity (distinct strategic decisions as separate items) rather than overly holistic frameworks. The
   guidance is now consistent between Pass 1 extraction (liberal, granular) and Pass 2 consolidation
  (conservative, preserve granularity).

> Thank you. I see you edited files directly in .claude/skills/research-assessor - do we need to do 
anything to invoke the updated skill, like restarting Claude, or is it ready to go? Also, am I correct 
that this folder is excluded from git tracking? If so, could we copy the skill over to the 
extraction-system/skill/research-assessor folder and update the readme in the skill/ parent folder? One 
more question about the skill - should the schema go there? I usually point you at the schema in 
extraction-system/schema/ and I'm concerned the two versions will get out of sync - at minimum can you 
confirm that they are identitical? 

● Excellent questions! Let me investigate each of these:

● Bash(grep -n "\.claude" /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/.gitignore)
  ⎿  Error: grep: /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/.gitignore: No such file or directory

● Bash(git status --short .claude/)
  ⎿   M .claude/skills/research-assessor/references/checklists/consolidation-patterns.md
      M .claude/skills/research-assessor/references/checklists/tier-assignment-guide.md

● Bash(ls -la /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/extraction-system/skill/)
  ⎿  total 80                                      
     drwxrwxr-x 3 shawn shawn  4096 Oct 25 18:24 .
     drwxrwxr-x 6 shawn shawn  4096 Oct 23 17:34 ..
     … +3 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

● Bash(diff -r /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/.claude/skills/research-assessor/
      /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/extraction-system/skill/research-assessor/ -…)
  ⎿  Only in /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/.claude/skills/research-assessor/: references
     Only in /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/.claude/skills/research-assessor/: SKILL.md

● Bash(ls -la /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/extraction-system/skill/research-assessor/)
  ⎿  total 8                                      
     drwxrwxr-x 2 shawn shawn 4096 Oct 25 17:45 .
     drwxrwxr-x 3 shawn shawn 4096 Oct 25 18:24 ..

● Bash(find /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility -name "schema-guide.md" -o -name "schema.json" 2>/dev/null |
      grep -E "(extraction-system|\.claude)")
  ⎿ /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/.claude/skills/research-assessor/references/schema/schema-guide.
    md


● Bash(ls -la /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/extraction-system/schema/ 2>/dev/null || echo "No schema
      folder in extraction-system")
  ⎿  total 88                                      
     drwxrwxr-x 2 shawn shawn  4096 Oct 23 17:51 .
     drwxrwxr-x 6 shawn shawn  4096 Oct 23 17:34 ..
     … +2 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

● Bash(ls -la /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/.claude/skills/research-assessor/references/schema/)
  ⎿  total 100                                     
     drwxr-xr-x 2 shawn shawn  4096 Oct 24 18:12 .
     drwxr-xr-x 5 shawn shawn  4096 Oct 24 18:12 ..
     … +2 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

● Bash(diff /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/extraction-system/schema/extraction_schema.json
      /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/.claude/skills/research-assessor/…)
  ⎿  (No content)

● Perfect! Let me answer your questions:

  1. Skill Invocation - Ready to Go ✅

  The updated skill is ready to use immediately - no restart needed. When I use the skill with
  Skill(research-assessor), it loads the current version from .claude/skills/research-assessor/.

  2. Git Tracking - IS Tracked ✅

  .claude/skills IS tracked by git:
  git status shows:
   M .claude/skills/research-assessor/references/checklists/consolidation-patterns.md
   M .claude/skills/research-assessor/references/checklists/tier-assignment-guide.md

  So your changes ARE being tracked and can be committed.

  3. Extraction-System Skill Folder - Empty, Should Sync

  Current state:
  - .claude/skills/research-assessor/ - Full skill (SKILL.md + references/)
  - extraction-system/skill/research-assessor/ - EMPTY (was probably cleared when moved to .claude/)

  Should we copy? I recommend YES for these reasons:
  - Archival/documentation purposes
  - Easier for users to browse without IDE
  - Can reference in reports/documentation
  - The zip file is already there (research-assessor-v2.6.zip)

  4. Schema Sync - Identical ✅

  Confirmed: The schemas are identical (diff returned no differences):
  - extraction-system/schema/extraction_schema.json (71,396 bytes)
  - .claude/skills/research-assessor/references/schema/extraction_schema.json (71,396 bytes)

  Your concern is valid - having two copies can lead to drift. Recommendation: Always update the skill
  schema as the source of truth, then copy to extraction-system/schema/.

  ---
  Recommended Actions

● Should I proceed with:

  1. Copy .claude/skills/research-assessor/ → extraction-system/skill/research-assessor/
    - This creates an archival copy for documentation/reference
    - Keeps the repository self-contained
  2. Update extraction-system/skill/SKILL_README.md
    - Document the v2.6.1 changes (implicit arguments + research design granularity)
    - Note that .claude/skills/ is the active version, extraction-system/skill/ is archival
  3. Add note about schema sync to README
    - Clarify that .claude/skills/research-assessor/references/schema/ is source of truth
    - Document process for keeping extraction-system/schema/ in sync

  Would you like me to proceed with these tasks?

> (1) Yes, please copy.\
(2) Yes, please update.\
(3) Yes, add note.\
\
Please proceed 

● Bash(cp -r /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/.claude/skills/research-assessor/*
      /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/extraction-system/skill/research-assessor/)
  ⎿  (No content)

● Bash(ls -la /home/shawn/Code/llm-reproducibility/extraction-system/skill/research-assessor/)
  ⎿  total 24                                      
     drwxrwxr-x 3 shawn shawn  4096 Oct 25 18:30 .
     drwxrwxr-x 3 shawn shawn  4096 Oct 25 18:30 ..
     … +2 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

● Read(extraction-system/skill/SKILL_README.md)
  ⎿  Read 147 lines

● Update(extraction-system/skill/SKILL_README.md)
  ⎿  Updated extraction-system/skill/SKILL_README.md with 25 additions and 4 removals                  
        1 -  # Research Assessor v2.6 - Package Summary
        1 +  # Research Assessor v2.6.1 - Package Summary
        2    
        3 -  **Package Date:** 2025-10-24  
        4 -  **Package File:** research-assessor-v2.6.zip  
        5 -  **Size:** 58 KB (compressed), 215 KB (uncompressed)
        3 +  **Package Date:** 2025-10-25
        4 +  **Active Version:** `.claude/skills/research-assessor/` (used by Claude Code)
        5 +  **Archive Version:** `extraction-system/skill/research-assessor/` (for 
          + reference/documentation)
        6 +  **Previous Package:** research-assessor-v2.6.zip
        7 +  **Size:** ~220 KB (uncompressed)
        8    
        9    ---
       10    
       11 +  ## What's New in v2.6.1
       12 +  
       13 +  ### Phase 3: Implicit Arguments Systematic Extraction
       14 +  ✅ **Systematic 4-type framework** required for all core claims (Pass 1)
       15 +  ✅ **Completeness review** added to Pass 2 for cross-section synthesis
       16 +  ✅ **Documentation requirement** if <3 implicit arguments found
       17 +  ✅ **Updated prompts:** 01-claims-evidence_pass1_prompt.md, 
          + 02-claims-evidence_pass2_prompt.md
       18 +  ✅ **Expected improvement:** 0 → 8-12 implicit arguments per paper
       19 +  
       20 +  ### Phase 4: Research Design Granularity Guidance
       21 +  ✅ **Granularity principle** - each strategic decision requiring independent justification
          +  = separate RD
       22 +  ✅ **Design language keywords** to identify strategic decisions
       23 +  ✅ **Conservative consolidation** for Research Designs (preserve granularity)
       24 +  ✅ **Updated references:** tier-assignment-guide.md, consolidation-patterns.md
       25 +  ✅ **Updated prompts:** 03-rdmap_pass1_prompt.md, 04-rdmap_pass2_prompt.md
       26 +  ✅ **Expected improvement:** 1-2 → 3-6 research designs per paper
       27 +  
       28 +  ---
       29 +  
       30    ## What's New in v2.6
       31    
       32    ### Phase 1: Consolidation Refinement

● Update(extraction-system/skill/SKILL_README.md)
  ⎿  Updated extraction-system/skill/SKILL_README.md with 5 additions and 2 removals               
       47    - `SKILL.md` - Main skill file with updated consolidation logic + verbatim reference
       48    
       49    ### references/ (10 files)
       50 -  **Updated Files:**
       50 +  **Updated Files (v2.6.1):**
       51 +  - `checklists/tier-assignment-guide.md` - Added Research Design granularity principle 
          + section
       52 +  - `checklists/consolidation-patterns.md` - Added Research Design consolidation rules
       53 +  
       54 +  **Updated Files (v2.6):**
       55    - `extraction-fundamentals.md` - Added verbatim quote section
       56    - `verbatim-quote-requirements.md` - **NEW** comprehensive verbatim guide
       57    - `checklists/consolidation-patterns.md` - Added empirical graph analysis section
     ...
       56    **Unchanged Files:**
       57    - `README.md` - References navigation guide
       58    - `verification-procedures.md` - Pass 3 validation procedures
       59 -  - `checklists/tier-assignment-guide.md` - Design/Method/Protocol decisions
       59    - `checklists/expected-information.md` - Completeness checklists
       60    - `schema/schema-guide.md` - Complete object definitions
       61    - `examples/sobotkova-example.md` - Worked example

● Update(extraction-system/skill/SKILL_README.md)
  ⎿  Updated extraction-system/skill/SKILL_README.md with 12 additions and 6 removals                
       76    
       77    ## Runtime Prompts (Separate Directory)
       78    
       79 -  The following prompt files have been updated and are provided separately:
       80 -  - `claims-evidence_pass1_prompt.md` - Added verbatim critical reminder
       81 -  - `claims-evidence_pass2_prompt.md` - Updated consolidation hierarchy + enhanced 
          - verification
       82 -  - `rdmap_pass1_prompt.md` - Added verbatim critical reminder
       83 -  - `rdmap_pass2_prompt.md` - Updated consolidation hierarchy + enhanced verification
       79 +  The following prompt files have been updated:
       80    
       81 -  **Note:** These prompts are NOT included in the skill package per architectural design. 
          - Update them in your prompt management system.
       81 +  **v2.6.1 Updates:**
       82 +  - `01-claims-evidence_pass1_prompt.md` - Added systematic implicit argument extraction 
          + workflow
       83 +  - `02-claims-evidence_pass2_prompt.md` - Added STEP 3: Implicit Argument Completeness 
          + Review
       84 +  - `03-rdmap_pass1_prompt.md` - Updated Step 1 with Research Design granularity guidance
       85 +  - `04-rdmap_pass2_prompt.md` - Added Research Design consolidation section
       86    
       87 +  **v2.6 Updates:**
       88 +  - All prompts - Added verbatim critical reminder
       89 +  - Pass 2 prompts - Updated consolidation hierarchy + enhanced verification
       90 +  
       91 +  **Note:** These prompts are in `extraction-system/prompts/` and are NOT included in the 
          + skill package per architectural design.
       92 +  
       93    ---
       94    
       95    ## Breaking Changes

● Update(extraction-system/skill/SKILL_README.md)
  ⎿  Updated extraction-system/skill/SKILL_README.md with 25 additions                                
        92    
        93    ---
        94    
        95 +  ## Schema Synchronization
        96 +  
        97 +  **Important:** The schema exists in two locations:
        98 +  
        99 +  **Source of Truth:**
       100 +  - `.claude/skills/research-assessor/references/schema/extraction_schema.json`
       101 +  - This is the version used by Claude Code when skill is invoked
       102 +  
       103 +  **Archive/Reference Copy:**
       104 +  - `extraction-system/schema/extraction_schema.json`
       105 +  
       106 +  **Current Status:** ✅ Both versions are identical (verified 2025-10-25)
       107 +  
       108 +  **Sync Protocol:**
       109 +  1. Always update the skill schema (`.claude/skills/`) first
       110 +  2. Copy to `extraction-system/schema/` for archival/documentation
       111 +  3. Verify sync with: `diff 
           + .claude/skills/research-assessor/references/schema/extraction_schema.json 
           + extraction-system/schema/extraction_schema.json`
       112 +  4. Commit both versions together to maintain sync
       113 +  
       114 +  **Why Two Copies?**
       115 +  - Skill version: Active runtime schema used by Claude Code
       116 +  - Extraction-system version: Documentation, reference for users, git tracking visibility
       117 +  
       118 +  ---
       119 +  
       120    ## Breaking Changes
       121    
       122    ### Schema

● Update(extraction-system/skill/SKILL_README.md)
  ⎿  Updated extraction-system/skill/SKILL_README.md with 1 addition                                 
       178    
       179    ## Version History
       180    
       181 +  - **v2.6.1** (2025-10-25) - Implicit arguments systematic extraction + Research Design 
           + granularity
       182    - **v2.6** (2025-10-24) - Consolidation refinement + verbatim quote requirements
       183    - **v2.5** (2025-10-21) - Hallucination prevention (mandatory sourcing)
       184    - **v2.4** - RDMAP objects (research_design, method, protocol)

● Perfect! All tasks completed. Here's a summary:

  Summary of Completed Actions

  1. Skill Invocation - ✅ Ready to Use

  The updated skill in .claude/skills/research-assessor/ is immediately active - no restart needed. When I
   invoke the skill, it uses the current version with all our improvements.

  2. Git Tracking - ✅ Tracked

  Confirmed that .claude/skills/ IS tracked by git. Your changes show:
  M .claude/skills/research-assessor/references/checklists/consolidation-patterns.md
  M .claude/skills/research-assessor/references/checklists/tier-assignment-guide.md

  3. Skill Copy - ✅ Completed

  Successfully copied .claude/skills/research-assessor/ → extraction-system/skill/research-assessor/
  - Includes: SKILL.md + full references/ directory
  - Purpose: Archival, documentation, easier browsing without IDE

  4. SKILL_README.md - ✅ Updated

  Updated extraction-system/skill/SKILL_README.md with:
  - Version bumped to v2.6.1
  - What's New section documenting:
    - Phase 3: Implicit Arguments systematic extraction (0 → 8-12 per paper)
    - Phase 4: Research Design granularity guidance (1-2 → 3-6 per paper)
  - Updated Files section listing changed skill references
  - Runtime Prompts section listing v2.6.1 prompt updates
  - Version History including v2.6.1 entry

  5. Schema Sync Documentation - ✅ Added

  Added comprehensive Schema Synchronization section documenting:
  - Source of Truth: .claude/skills/research-assessor/references/schema/extraction_schema.json
  - Archive Copy: extraction-system/schema/extraction_schema.json
  - Current Status: Both identical (verified 2025-10-25)
  - Sync Protocol: 4-step process to maintain synchronization
  - Why Two Copies: Runtime vs documentation purposes

  6. Schema Verification - ✅ Confirmed Identical

  Verified both schema files are byte-for-byte identical (71,396 bytes each):
  diff returned no differences

  ---
  Current State

  Active Skill: .claude/skills/research-assessor/ (v2.6.1)
  - ✅ Implicit arguments systematic extraction
  - ✅ Research Design granularity guidance
  - ✅ Ready to use immediately

  Archive Skill: extraction-system/skill/research-assessor/ (v2.6.1)
  - ✅ Full copy for reference/documentation
  - ✅ Git tracked
  - ✅ README updated with v2.6.1 changes

  Schemas: Both versions synchronized and identical

  Prompts: Already updated in earlier tasks:
  - 01-claims-evidence_pass1_prompt.md
  - 02-claims-evidence_pass2_prompt.md
  - 03-rdmap_pass1_prompt.md
  - 04-rdmap_pass2_prompt.md

  Everything is ready for testing the improved workflow!

> we are low on context, please do a git commit (with informative brief and detailed messages) then push. 
After that, please compose a /compact message. 

● Bash(git status --short)
  ⎿   M .claude/skills/research-assessor/references/checklists/consolidation-patterns.md
      M .claude/skills/research-assessor/references/checklists/tier-assignment-guide.md
      M extraction-system/prompts/01-claims-evidence_pass1_prompt.md
     … +14 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

● Bash(git add .claude/skills/research-assessor/references/checklists/*.md extraction-system/prompts/*.md
      extraction-system/skill/ input/WORKFLOW.md planning/*.md repo…)
  ⎿  (No content)

● Bash(git commit -m "Fix implicit arguments and research design extraction gaps (v2.6.1)…)
  ⎿  [main d48336f] Fix implicit arguments and research design extraction gaps (v2.6.1)
      27 files changed, 12816 insertions(+), 27 deletions(-)
      create mode 100644 archive/cc-interactions/2025-10-25-a.txt
     … +24 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

● Bash(git push)
  ⎿  To github.com:saross/llm-reproducibility.git
        df2a8cd..d48336f  main -> main

● Perfect! All committed and pushed. Now here's the compact message:

  ---
  Session Summary: Fix Implicit Arguments & Research Design Extraction Gaps (v2.6.1)

  What We Accomplished

  Successfully diagnosed and fixed two critical extraction gaps identified through chatbot vs CC
  comparison on Sobotkova et al. 2023 paper:

  Gap 1: Implicit Arguments (0 → 8-12 expected)
  - CC extracted 0, chatbot extracted 10
  - Root cause: Prompts had guidance but lacked systematic workflow emphasis
  - Fixed by adding required 4-type framework to Pass 1 & Pass 2 prompts
  - Now requires systematic search for EACH core claim with documentation if none found

  Gap 2: Research Designs (2 → 3-6 expected)
  - CC extracted 2 holistic frameworks, chatbot extracted 5 distinct strategic decisions
  - Root cause: No granularity guidance on when to split design elements
  - Fixed by adding granularity principle to skill references and prompts
  - Core rule: Each strategic decision requiring independent justification = separate RD

  Files Modified (All Committed & Pushed)

  Prompts (4 files, +50 lines net):
  - 01-claims-evidence_pass1_prompt.md - Systematic implicit argument extraction workflow
  - 02-claims-evidence_pass2_prompt.md - STEP 3: Implicit Argument Completeness Review
  - 03-rdmap_pass1_prompt.md - Research Design granularity guidance
  - 04-rdmap_pass2_prompt.md - Conservative RD consolidation rules

  Skill References (2 files, +43 lines):
  - tier-assignment-guide.md - Research Design granularity principle, design language keywords
  - consolidation-patterns.md - RD consolidation rules (preserve granularity, unlike Evidence)

  Documentation & Archival:
  - WORKFLOW.md - Added file management guidance (direct writes only, v2.6.1)
  - Copied .claude/skills/research-assessor/ to extraction-system/skill/
  - Updated SKILL_README.md to v2.6.1 with schema sync documentation

  Planning Documents (3 new files):
  - workflow-improvements-from-comparison.md - Comprehensive improvement plan
  - implicit-arguments-gap-diagnosis.md - Root cause analysis
  - future-workflow-improvements.md - Deferred improvements from chatbot self-assessment

  Reports (2 new):
  - reports/extraction-testing/extraction-comparison.md - CC vs chatbot detailed analysis
  - reports/implicit-arguments/Extraction_Performance_Analysis.md - Chatbot self-assessment

  Key Findings from Comparison

  Quantitative differences:
  - Total items: 85 (CC) vs 64 (chatbot) - CC more comprehensive
  - Evidence: 36 (CC) vs 13 (chatbot) - CC captured more granular measurements
  - Claims: 31 (CC) vs 16 (chatbot) - CC preserved inferential steps
  - Implicit arguments: 0 (CC) vs 10 (chatbot) - CRITICAL GAP now fixed
  - Research designs: 2 (CC) vs 5 (chatbot) - GRANULARITY GAP now fixed

  Quality assessment:
  - Both had 100% source verification
  - Different consolidation philosophies: CC conservative (3%), chatbot aggressive (69%)
  - CC's approach better for assessment (preserves assessability), now enhanced with implicit arguments

  Overall verdict: CC workflow is production-ready with v2.6.1 fixes

  Next Steps

  For user:
  1. Test v2.6.1 on new paper extraction
  2. Verify implicit arguments extracted (target: 8-12)
  3. Verify research designs granular (target: 3-6)
  4. Consider implementing deferred improvements incrementally (see future-workflow-improvements.md)

  What's ready:
  - ✅ Skill v2.6.1 active in .claude/skills/ (no restart needed)
  - ✅ All prompts updated in extraction-system/prompts/
  - ✅ WORKFLOW.md v2.6.1 with file management guidance
  - ✅ All changes committed and pushed to main
  - ✅ Documentation updated with schema sync protocol

  Repository State

  - Branch: main
  - Latest commit: d48336f "Fix implicit arguments and research design extraction gaps (v2.6.1)"
  - Files changed: 27 files, +12,816 insertions, -27 deletions
  - Status: All changes committed, pushed, clean working directory

  Context for Next Session

  Skill version: research-assessor v2.6.1
  - Implicit arguments: Systematic 4-type framework required for all core claims
  - Research designs: Each strategic decision = separate RD (design language keywords, conservative
  consolidation)
  - File management: Direct writes to extraction.json only (no intermediate files)

  Testing priority: Run full 5-pass extraction on new paper to validate both fixes work autonomously.

  Deferred improvements available in: planning/future-workflow-improvements.md
  - Fundamentals reading requirement (STEP 0)
  - Liberal extraction mental model strengthening
  - Relationship mapping emphasis
  - Verbatim quote quality standards
  - Scope management guidance



